microsoft-azure-sb/3.0/modules/ROOT/pages/azure-service-bus-connector-examples.adoc, before:

= Azure Service Bus Connector 3.0 Examples - Mule 4

The examples in this section show application flows that:

* <<send-receive,Sends messages to and receives messages>> from Azure
* <<send-listen-ack, Sends and listens for messages and receives an acknowledgment using the `MANUAL` acknowledgment type

These examples use variables for some field values. You can either:

* Replace the variables with their values in the code
* Provide the values for each variable in a properties file and then refer to that file from the connector configuration
+
For more information about using a properties file, see xref:mule-runtime::mule-app-properties-to-configure.adoc[Configuring Property Placeholders]

== Prerequisites

* Java 8.
* Anypoint Studio 7.1.0 or later
* Mule Runtime 4.2.x EE or later
* Create a new queue for testing purpose on Azure Portal.

== Create a Mule Project

After you create a new Mule project and configure your credentials, you can create an application flow for each example by using the provided XML code.

To create a Mule project:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.
. Create a file named `mule-app.properties` and save it in `<project-name>/src/main/resources`.
. Configure your Azure connection credentials in the file `mule-app.properties`, and include the name of the Azure queue you created, for example:
+
----
#==============================================================
#Connection Parameters
#==============================================================
# Azure
azure.namespace=myazure
azure.keyname=SAStokenname
azure.key=SAStoken
queue.name=mytestqueue
----
+ 
. Save the file.
. Open the *Global Element Configuration* and click *Test Connection* to verify your credentials.

[[send-receive]]
== Example Send and Receive Flow

This flow shows an example of how to use the Send and Receive From Queue operations to  send and receive messages:

image::azure-service-bus-send-receive.png[Example Azure Service Bus flow that uses the Send and Receive From Queue operations]

To create this flow:

. In the Studio canvas, click *Configuration XML*.
. Delete all the contents after the line `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>`.
. Copy and paste the following XML after the line `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>`:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<mule xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core"
	xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
	xmlns:azure-service-bus-messaging="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging" xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
	xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd 
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging/current/mule-azure-service-bus-messaging.xsd">
	<configuration-properties file="mule-app.properties" doc:name="Configuration properties"/>
	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config" doc:name="HTTP Listener config" doc:id="290d1aa8-2e61-4707-8f04-65f0e5e4cf07" >
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>
	<azure-service-bus-messaging:config name="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" doc:name="Azure Service Bus Messaging Connector Config" doc:id="71d0e711-6d29-4eff-b640-00986a41dfbc" >
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:sas-connection namespace="${azure.namespace}" sharedAccessKeyName="${azure.keyname}" sharedAccessKey="${azure.key}" />
	</azure-service-bus-messaging:config>
	<flow name="send-flow" doc:id="2c8bce62-f192-4db2-9c70-792a5e78ac7f" >
		<http:listener doc:name="Send Message Endpoint" doc:id="aa79c404-2e41-4453-9fde-18b8ea74c805" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/sendMessage" />
		<ee:transform doc:name="Set Payload and Attributes" doc:id="bddebf8d-6d63-4db0-990f-94ecec23ddbd">
			<ee:message>
				<ee:set-payload><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	key1: "value1",
	key2: "value2 for Queue"
}]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
			<ee:variables>
				<ee:set-variable variableName="messageAttributes"><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	messageId: "messageId1234",
	correlationStrategy: "AUTO",
	correlationId: "correlationId",
	label: "my_label",
	partitionKey: "the_partition_key",
	timeToLive: 60,
	ttlTimeUnit: "SECONDS",
	scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc: "2018-12-09 03:01:00.000",
	properties: {
		property1: "value1",
		property2: "value2"
	}
}]]></ee:set-variable>
			</ee:variables>
		</ee:transform>
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:send doc:name="Queue Send" doc:id="50b3592c-f777-4667-b042-00fd266120e8" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" destinationName="${queue.name}" messageId="#[vars.messageAttributes.messageId]" correlationId="#[vars.messageAttributes.correlationId]" label="#[vars.messageAttributes.label]" sendCorrelationStrategy="#[vars.messageAttributes.correlationStrategy]" partitionKey="#[vars.messageAttributes.partitionKey]" timeToLive="#[vars.messageAttributes.timeToLive]" scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc='#[vars.messageAttributes.scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc as LocalDateTime {format: "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSS"}]' timeToLiveTimeUnit="#[vars.messageAttributes.ttlTimeUnit]" properties="#[vars.messageAttributes.properties]">
		</azure-service-bus-messaging:send>
	</flow>
	<flow name="queue-receiver-flow" doc:id="9b39aaa5-e81f-4257-b65e-d4f48c8ef2d8" >
		<http:listener doc:name="Receive From Queue" doc:id="386337a0-99c9-45cf-a81f-95d5e06f0b74" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/receive"/>
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:receive doc:name="Receive From Queue" doc:id="05c8c754-79f6-4873-8329-af7f48f01d3b" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" destinationName="${queue.name}"/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Attributes to Json" doc:id="a509a361-4bd7-4c6e-81cc-39ad36e7b625">
			<ee:message>
			</ee:message>
			<ee:variables >
				<ee:set-variable variableName="jsonAttributes" ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
attributes]]></ee:set-variable>
			</ee:variables>
		</ee:transform>
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Log Attributes" doc:id="94e7254c-a197-4fa2-b437-b64719acb23d" message="#[vars.jsonAttributes]" />
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Log the message body" doc:id="d802b081-f3fc-4ec2-a23c-96bc0db3863c" message="#[payload]" />
	</flow>
</mule>
----
+
. When you are prompted to regenerate `doc:id` values, click *Yes*.
. Save the project.

== Example Batch Send and Receive

This application flow uses the *Send batch* and *Receive Batch* operations to send and receive batches of messages to and from an Azure Service Bus queue. 

The following screenshot shows the application flow for sending and receiving batch messages:

image::azure-service-bus-send-receive-batch.png[Application flow that shows sending and receiving batch messages]

To create this flow:

. In the Studio canvas, click *Configuration XML*.
. Delete all the contents after the line `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>`.
. Copy and paste the following XML after the line `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>`:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<mule xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core"
	xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
	xmlns:azure-service-bus-messaging="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging" xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
	xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd 
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging/current/mule-azure-service-bus-messaging.xsd">
	<configuration-properties file="mule-app.properties" doc:name="Configuration properties"/>
	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config" doc:name="HTTP Listener config" doc:id="290d1aa8-2e61-4707-8f04-65f0e5e4cf07" >
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>
	<azure-service-bus-messaging:config name="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" doc:name="Azure Service Bus Messaging Connector Config" doc:id="71d0e711-6d29-4eff-b640-00986a41dfbc" >
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:sas-connection namespace="${azure.namespace}" sharedAccessKeyName="${azure.keyname}" sharedAccessKey="${azure.key}" />
	</azure-service-bus-messaging:config>
	<flow name="send-batch-flow" doc:id="2c8bce62-f192-4db2-9c70-792a5e78ac7f" >
		<http:listener doc:name="Send Message Endpoint" doc:id="aa79c404-2e41-4453-9fde-18b8ea74c805" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/sendBatch" />
		<ee:transform doc:name="Messages with Json Bodies and Properties" doc:id="1f28f155-28c8-4feb-834c-0e790cac7a53" >
                <ee:message >
                </ee:message>
                <ee:variables >
					<ee:set-variable variableName="messages" ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/java
---
[{
	body: "{\"key1\":\"value1\",\"key2\":\"otherValue1\"}" as Binary,
	messageId: "messageId1",
	sendCorrelationStrategy: "AUTO",
	correlationId: "correlation1",
	contentType: "application/json",
	replyToSessionId: "replyToSessionId1",
	label: "label_msg1",
	partitionKey: "the_partition_key1",
	timeToLive: 240,
	timeToLiveTimeUnit: "SECONDS",
	zoneId: "America/Buenos_Aires",
	scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc: "2018-12-09-00-0800" as LocalDateTime {format: "yyyy-MM-dd-HHZZZ"},
	properties: {
		property1: "value1",
		property2: "value2"
	},
},
{
	body: "{\"key1\":\"value2\",\"key2\":\"otherValue2\"}" as Binary,
	messageId: "messageId2",
	sendCorrelationStrategy: "AUTO",
	correlationId: "correlation2",
	contentType: "application/json",
	replyToSessionId: "replyToSessionId2",
	label: "label_msg2",
	partitionKey: "the_partition_key2",
	timeToLive: 240,
	timeToLiveTimeUnit: "SECONDS",
	zoneId: "America/Buenos_Aires",
	scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc: "2018-12-09-00-0800" as LocalDateTime {format: "yyyy-MM-dd-HHZZZ"},
	properties: {
		property1: "value1",
		property2: "value2"
	},
},
{
	body: "{\"key1\":\"value3\",\"key2\":\"otherValue3\"}" as Binary,
	messageId: "messageId3",
	sendCorrelationStrategy: "AUTO",
	correlationId: "correlation3",
	contentType: "application/json",
	replyToSessionId: "replyToSessionId3",
	label: "label_msg3",
	partitionKey: "the_partition_key3",
	timeToLive: 240,
	timeToLiveTimeUnit: "SECONDS",
	zoneId: "America/Buenos_Aires",
	scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc: "2018-12-09-00-0800" as LocalDateTime {format: "yyyy-MM-dd-HHZZZ"},
	properties: {
		property1: "value1",
		property2: "value2"
	},
}]]]></ee:set-variable>
                </ee:variables>
            </ee:transform>
			<azure-service-bus-messaging:send-message-batch destinationName="${queue.name}" doc:name="Send batch of messages" doc:id="799d9ba3-68a9-4ef7-b518-6a715429b2a7" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config">
				<azure-service-bus-messaging:messages ><![CDATA[#[vars.messages]]]></azure-service-bus-messaging:messages>
			</azure-service-bus-messaging:send-message-batch>
		<set-payload value='#[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	result: "Messages sent!"
}]' doc:name="Set Payload" doc:id="c8b39b61-fa84-496d-b92c-e970a1a44003" />
	</flow>
	<flow name="queue-receiver-flow" doc:id="9b39aaa5-e81f-4257-b65e-d4f48c8ef2d8" >
		<http:listener doc:name="Receive Batch From Queue" doc:id="386337a0-99c9-45cf-a81f-95d5e06f0b74" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/receiveBatch"/>
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:receive-batch doc:name="Receive Batch" doc:id="ee30123a-cc9f-4e08-a2e9-c41aede3923f" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" maxMessageCount="3" destinationName="${queue.name}"/>
		<foreach doc:name="For Each" doc:id="16a42925-3142-48c7-9973-f951029af5fa" >
			<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" doc:id="a5bfc3c6-2335-4c4e-845e-a67cf990a510" message='#["Received message number " ++ vars.counter]'/>
			<ee:transform doc:name="Attributes to Json" doc:id="a509a361-4bd7-4c6e-81cc-39ad36e7b625">
			<ee:message>
			</ee:message>
			<ee:variables>
				<ee:set-variable variableName="jsonAttributes"><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
attributes]]></ee:set-variable>
			</ee:variables>
		</ee:transform>
			<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Log Attributes" doc:id="94e7254c-a197-4fa2-b437-b64719acb23d" message="#[vars.jsonAttributes]" />
			<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Log the message body" doc:id="d802b081-f3fc-4ec2-a23c-96bc0db3863c" message="#[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
payload]" />
		</foreach>
	</flow>
</mule>
----

[[send-listen-ack]] 
== Example Send, Listen, and Acknowledge the Message 

This application flow uses the *Send* and *Message Listener* operations. The *Message Listener* is using the `MANUAL` acknowledgment type, which means that the application logic is responsible for acknowledging receipt of the message, so the *Complete* operation is also added to the same flow as the *Message Listener*.

The following screenshot shows this flow:

image::azure-service-bus-send-listen-manual-ack.png[This is the application flow that shows the way the Send, Message Listener, and Complete operations are used]

To create this flow:

. In the Studio canvas, click *Configuration XML*.
. Delete all the contents after the line `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>`.
. Copy and paste the following XML after the line `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>`:
+
[source,xml,linenums]]
----
<mule xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core"
	  xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
	  xmlns:azure-service-bus-messaging="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging" xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
	  xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
	  xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd 
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging/current/mule-azure-service-bus-messaging.xsd">
	<configuration-properties file="mule-app.properties" doc:name="Configuration properties"/>
	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config" doc:name="HTTP Listener config" doc:id="290d1aa8-2e61-4707-8f04-65f0e5e4cf07" >
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>
	<azure-service-bus-messaging:config name="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" doc:name="Azure Service Bus Messaging Connector Config" doc:id="71d0e711-6d29-4eff-b640-00986a41dfbc" >
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:sas-connection namespace="${azure.namespace}" sharedAccessKeyName="${azure.keyname}" sharedAccessKey="${azure.key}" />
	</azure-service-bus-messaging:config>
	<flow name="send-endpoint-flow" doc:id="2c8bce62-f192-4db2-9c70-792a5e78ac7f" >
		<http:listener doc:name="Send Queue Endpoint" doc:id="aa79c404-2e41-4453-9fde-18b8ea74c805" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/sendMessage" />
		<ee:transform doc:name="Set Payload and Attributes" doc:id="bddebf8d-6d63-4db0-990f-94ecec23ddbd" >
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	key1: "value1",
	key2: "value2 for Queue"
}]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
			<ee:variables >
				<ee:set-variable variableName="messageAttributes" ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	messageId: "messageId1234",
	correlationStrategy: "AUTO",
	correlationId: "correlationId",
	label: "my_label",
	partitionKey: "the_partition_key",
	timeToLive: 60,
	ttlTimeUnit: "SECONDS",
	scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc: "2018-12-09 03:01:00.000",
	properties: {
		property1: "value1",
		property2: "value2"
	}
}]]></ee:set-variable>
			</ee:variables>
		</ee:transform>
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:send doc:name="Queue Send" doc:id="50b3592c-f777-4667-b042-00fd266120e8" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" destinationName="${queue.name}" messageId='#[vars.messageAttributes.messageId]' correlationId="#[vars.messageAttributes.correlationId]" label="#[vars.messageAttributes.label]" sendCorrelationStrategy="#[vars.messageAttributes.correlationStrategy]" partitionKey="#[vars.messageAttributes.partitionKey]" timeToLive="#[vars.messageAttributes.timeToLive]" scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc='#[vars.messageAttributes.scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc  as LocalDateTime {format: "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSS"}]' timeToLiveTimeUnit="#[vars.messageAttributes.ttlTimeUnit]" properties="#[vars.messageAttributes.properties]">
		</azure-service-bus-messaging:send>
	</flow>
	<flow name="listener-manual-ack-flow" doc:id="541d4149-41b1-43e4-8d61-c16cf3ee502f" >
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:message-listener doc:name="Message listener" doc:id="cb61833e-9e1f-48b3-9430-a83b47c11a4c" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" ackMode="MANUAL" destinationName="${queue.name}" numberOfConsumers="1"/>
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Log the message" doc:id="d802b081-f3fc-4ec2-a23c-96bc0db3863c" message="#[payload]"/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Attributes to Json" doc:id="a509a361-4bd7-4c6e-81cc-39ad36e7b625" >
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
attributes]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Log Attributes" doc:id="94e7254c-a197-4fa2-b437-b64719acb23d" message="#[payload]"/>
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:complete-message doc:name="Ack of Message" doc:id="6aa7238b-3bc9-4a61-a39b-e1bd260ee7c5" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" lockToken="#[attributes.lockToken]" />
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Log Lock Token" doc:id="a91eea3e-231a-4675-9457-b6c7366ab647" message='#["LockToken = " ++ payload.lockToken]'/>
	</flow>
</mule>
----
+
. When you are prompted to regenerate `doc:id` values, click *Yes*.
. Save the project.

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/intro-use-exchange.adoc[Use Exchange to Discover Connectors, Templates, and Examples]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

Added step to run the project

microsoft-azure-sb/3.0/modules/ROOT/pages/azure-service-bus-connector-examples.adoc, after:

= Azure Service Bus Connector 3.0 Examples - Mule 4

The examples in this section show application flows that:

* <<send-receive,Sends messages to and receives messages>> from Azure
* <<send-listen-ack, Sends and listens for messages and receives an acknowledgment using the `MANUAL` acknowledgment type

These examples use variables for some field values. You can either:

* Replace the variables with their values in the code
* Provide the values for each variable in a properties file and then refer to that file from the connector configuration
+
For more information about using a properties file, see xref:mule-runtime::mule-app-properties-to-configure.adoc[Configuring Property Placeholders]

== Prerequisites

* Java 8.
* Anypoint Studio 7.1.0 or later
* Mule Runtime 4.2.x EE or later
* Create a new queue for testing purpose on Azure Portal.

== Create a Mule Project

After you create a new Mule project and configure your credentials, you can create an application flow for each example by using the provided XML code.

To create a Mule project:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.
. Create a file named `mule-app.properties` and save it in `<project-name>/src/main/resources`.
. Configure your Azure connection credentials in the file `mule-app.properties`, and include the name of the Azure queue you created, for example:
+
----
#==============================================================
#Connection Parameters
#==============================================================
# Azure
azure.namespace=myazure
azure.keyname=SAStokenname
azure.key=SAStoken
queue.name=mytestqueue
----
+ 
. Save the file.
. Open the *Global Element Configuration* and click *Test Connection* to verify your credentials.

[[send-receive]]
== Example Send and Receive Flow

This flow shows an example of how to use the Send and Receive From Queue operations to  send and receive messages:

image::azure-service-bus-send-receive.png[Example Azure Service Bus flow that uses the Send and Receive From Queue operations]

To create this flow:

. In the Studio canvas, click *Configuration XML*.
. Delete all the contents after the line `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>`.
. Copy and paste the following XML after the line `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>`:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<mule xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core"
	xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
	xmlns:azure-service-bus-messaging="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging" xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
	xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd 
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging/current/mule-azure-service-bus-messaging.xsd">
	<configuration-properties file="mule-app.properties" doc:name="Configuration properties"/>
	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config" doc:name="HTTP Listener config" doc:id="290d1aa8-2e61-4707-8f04-65f0e5e4cf07" >
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>
	<azure-service-bus-messaging:config name="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" doc:name="Azure Service Bus Messaging Connector Config" doc:id="71d0e711-6d29-4eff-b640-00986a41dfbc" >
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:sas-connection namespace="${azure.namespace}" sharedAccessKeyName="${azure.keyname}" sharedAccessKey="${azure.key}" />
	</azure-service-bus-messaging:config>
	<flow name="send-flow" doc:id="2c8bce62-f192-4db2-9c70-792a5e78ac7f" >
		<http:listener doc:name="Send Message Endpoint" doc:id="aa79c404-2e41-4453-9fde-18b8ea74c805" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/sendMessage" />
		<ee:transform doc:name="Set Payload and Attributes" doc:id="bddebf8d-6d63-4db0-990f-94ecec23ddbd">
			<ee:message>
				<ee:set-payload><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	key1: "value1",
	key2: "value2 for Queue"
}]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
			<ee:variables>
				<ee:set-variable variableName="messageAttributes"><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	messageId: "messageId1234",
	correlationStrategy: "AUTO",
	correlationId: "correlationId",
	label: "my_label",
	partitionKey: "the_partition_key",
	timeToLive: 60,
	ttlTimeUnit: "SECONDS",
	scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc: "2018-12-09 03:01:00.000",
	properties: {
		property1: "value1",
		property2: "value2"
	}
}]]></ee:set-variable>
			</ee:variables>
		</ee:transform>
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:send doc:name="Queue Send" doc:id="50b3592c-f777-4667-b042-00fd266120e8" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" destinationName="${queue.name}" messageId="#[vars.messageAttributes.messageId]" correlationId="#[vars.messageAttributes.correlationId]" label="#[vars.messageAttributes.label]" sendCorrelationStrategy="#[vars.messageAttributes.correlationStrategy]" partitionKey="#[vars.messageAttributes.partitionKey]" timeToLive="#[vars.messageAttributes.timeToLive]" scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc='#[vars.messageAttributes.scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc as LocalDateTime {format: "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSS"}]' timeToLiveTimeUnit="#[vars.messageAttributes.ttlTimeUnit]" properties="#[vars.messageAttributes.properties]">
		</azure-service-bus-messaging:send>
	</flow>
	<flow name="queue-receiver-flow" doc:id="9b39aaa5-e81f-4257-b65e-d4f48c8ef2d8" >
		<http:listener doc:name="Receive From Queue" doc:id="386337a0-99c9-45cf-a81f-95d5e06f0b74" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/receive"/>
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:receive doc:name="Receive From Queue" doc:id="05c8c754-79f6-4873-8329-af7f48f01d3b" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" destinationName="${queue.name}"/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Attributes to Json" doc:id="a509a361-4bd7-4c6e-81cc-39ad36e7b625">
			<ee:message>
			</ee:message>
			<ee:variables >
				<ee:set-variable variableName="jsonAttributes" ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
attributes]]></ee:set-variable>
			</ee:variables>
		</ee:transform>
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Log Attributes" doc:id="94e7254c-a197-4fa2-b437-b64719acb23d" message="#[vars.jsonAttributes]" />
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Log the message body" doc:id="d802b081-f3fc-4ec2-a23c-96bc0db3863c" message="#[payload]" />
	</flow>
</mule>
----
+
. When you are prompted to regenerate `doc:id` values, click *Yes*.
. Save the project.
. Right-click in the Studio canvas and select *Run project <project-name>* to run the project.  

== Example Batch Send and Receive

This application flow uses the *Send batch* and *Receive Batch* operations to send and receive batches of messages to and from an Azure Service Bus queue. 

The following screenshot shows the application flow for sending and receiving batch messages:

image::azure-service-bus-send-receive-batch.png[Application flow that shows sending and receiving batch messages]

To create this flow:

. In the Studio canvas, click *Configuration XML*.
. Delete all the contents after the line `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>`.
. Copy and paste the following XML after the line `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>`:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<mule xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core"
	xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
	xmlns:azure-service-bus-messaging="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging" xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
	xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd 
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging/current/mule-azure-service-bus-messaging.xsd">
	<configuration-properties file="mule-app.properties" doc:name="Configuration properties"/>
	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config" doc:name="HTTP Listener config" doc:id="290d1aa8-2e61-4707-8f04-65f0e5e4cf07" >
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>
	<azure-service-bus-messaging:config name="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" doc:name="Azure Service Bus Messaging Connector Config" doc:id="71d0e711-6d29-4eff-b640-00986a41dfbc" >
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:sas-connection namespace="${azure.namespace}" sharedAccessKeyName="${azure.keyname}" sharedAccessKey="${azure.key}" />
	</azure-service-bus-messaging:config>
	<flow name="send-batch-flow" doc:id="2c8bce62-f192-4db2-9c70-792a5e78ac7f" >
		<http:listener doc:name="Send Message Endpoint" doc:id="aa79c404-2e41-4453-9fde-18b8ea74c805" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/sendBatch" />
		<ee:transform doc:name="Messages with Json Bodies and Properties" doc:id="1f28f155-28c8-4feb-834c-0e790cac7a53" >
                <ee:message >
                </ee:message>
                <ee:variables >
					<ee:set-variable variableName="messages" ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/java
---
[{
	body: "{\"key1\":\"value1\",\"key2\":\"otherValue1\"}" as Binary,
	messageId: "messageId1",
	sendCorrelationStrategy: "AUTO",
	correlationId: "correlation1",
	contentType: "application/json",
	replyToSessionId: "replyToSessionId1",
	label: "label_msg1",
	partitionKey: "the_partition_key1",
	timeToLive: 240,
	timeToLiveTimeUnit: "SECONDS",
	zoneId: "America/Buenos_Aires",
	scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc: "2018-12-09-00-0800" as LocalDateTime {format: "yyyy-MM-dd-HHZZZ"},
	properties: {
		property1: "value1",
		property2: "value2"
	},
},
{
	body: "{\"key1\":\"value2\",\"key2\":\"otherValue2\"}" as Binary,
	messageId: "messageId2",
	sendCorrelationStrategy: "AUTO",
	correlationId: "correlation2",
	contentType: "application/json",
	replyToSessionId: "replyToSessionId2",
	label: "label_msg2",
	partitionKey: "the_partition_key2",
	timeToLive: 240,
	timeToLiveTimeUnit: "SECONDS",
	zoneId: "America/Buenos_Aires",
	scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc: "2018-12-09-00-0800" as LocalDateTime {format: "yyyy-MM-dd-HHZZZ"},
	properties: {
		property1: "value1",
		property2: "value2"
	},
},
{
	body: "{\"key1\":\"value3\",\"key2\":\"otherValue3\"}" as Binary,
	messageId: "messageId3",
	sendCorrelationStrategy: "AUTO",
	correlationId: "correlation3",
	contentType: "application/json",
	replyToSessionId: "replyToSessionId3",
	label: "label_msg3",
	partitionKey: "the_partition_key3",
	timeToLive: 240,
	timeToLiveTimeUnit: "SECONDS",
	zoneId: "America/Buenos_Aires",
	scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc: "2018-12-09-00-0800" as LocalDateTime {format: "yyyy-MM-dd-HHZZZ"},
	properties: {
		property1: "value1",
		property2: "value2"
	},
}]]]></ee:set-variable>
                </ee:variables>
            </ee:transform>
			<azure-service-bus-messaging:send-message-batch destinationName="${queue.name}" doc:name="Send batch of messages" doc:id="799d9ba3-68a9-4ef7-b518-6a715429b2a7" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config">
				<azure-service-bus-messaging:messages ><![CDATA[#[vars.messages]]]></azure-service-bus-messaging:messages>
			</azure-service-bus-messaging:send-message-batch>
		<set-payload value='#[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	result: "Messages sent!"
}]' doc:name="Set Payload" doc:id="c8b39b61-fa84-496d-b92c-e970a1a44003" />
	</flow>
	<flow name="queue-receiver-flow" doc:id="9b39aaa5-e81f-4257-b65e-d4f48c8ef2d8" >
		<http:listener doc:name="Receive Batch From Queue" doc:id="386337a0-99c9-45cf-a81f-95d5e06f0b74" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/receiveBatch"/>
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:receive-batch doc:name="Receive Batch" doc:id="ee30123a-cc9f-4e08-a2e9-c41aede3923f" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" maxMessageCount="3" destinationName="${queue.name}"/>
		<foreach doc:name="For Each" doc:id="16a42925-3142-48c7-9973-f951029af5fa" >
			<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" doc:id="a5bfc3c6-2335-4c4e-845e-a67cf990a510" message='#["Received message number " ++ vars.counter]'/>
			<ee:transform doc:name="Attributes to Json" doc:id="a509a361-4bd7-4c6e-81cc-39ad36e7b625">
			<ee:message>
			</ee:message>
			<ee:variables>
				<ee:set-variable variableName="jsonAttributes"><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
attributes]]></ee:set-variable>
			</ee:variables>
		</ee:transform>
			<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Log Attributes" doc:id="94e7254c-a197-4fa2-b437-b64719acb23d" message="#[vars.jsonAttributes]" />
			<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Log the message body" doc:id="d802b081-f3fc-4ec2-a23c-96bc0db3863c" message="#[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
payload]" />
		</foreach>
	</flow>
</mule>
----
+
. Save the project.
. Right-click in the Studio canvas and select *Run project <project-name>* to run the project.

[[send-listen-ack]] 
== Example Send, Listen, and Acknowledge the Message 

This application flow uses the *Send* and *Message Listener* operations. The *Message Listener* is using the `MANUAL` acknowledgment type, which means that the application logic is responsible for acknowledging receipt of the message, so the *Complete* operation is also added to the same flow as the *Message Listener*.

The following screenshot shows this flow:

image::azure-service-bus-send-listen-manual-ack.png[This is the application flow that shows the way the Send, Message Listener, and Complete operations are used]

To create this flow:

. In the Studio canvas, click *Configuration XML*.
. Delete all the contents after the line `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>`.
. Copy and paste the following XML after the line `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>`:
+
[source,xml,linenums]]
----
<mule xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core"
	  xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
	  xmlns:azure-service-bus-messaging="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging" xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
	  xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
	  xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd 
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-messaging/current/mule-azure-service-bus-messaging.xsd">
	<configuration-properties file="mule-app.properties" doc:name="Configuration properties"/>
	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config" doc:name="HTTP Listener config" doc:id="290d1aa8-2e61-4707-8f04-65f0e5e4cf07" >
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>
	<azure-service-bus-messaging:config name="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" doc:name="Azure Service Bus Messaging Connector Config" doc:id="71d0e711-6d29-4eff-b640-00986a41dfbc" >
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:sas-connection namespace="${azure.namespace}" sharedAccessKeyName="${azure.keyname}" sharedAccessKey="${azure.key}" />
	</azure-service-bus-messaging:config>
	<flow name="send-endpoint-flow" doc:id="2c8bce62-f192-4db2-9c70-792a5e78ac7f" >
		<http:listener doc:name="Send Queue Endpoint" doc:id="aa79c404-2e41-4453-9fde-18b8ea74c805" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/sendMessage" />
		<ee:transform doc:name="Set Payload and Attributes" doc:id="bddebf8d-6d63-4db0-990f-94ecec23ddbd" >
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	key1: "value1",
	key2: "value2 for Queue"
}]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
			<ee:variables >
				<ee:set-variable variableName="messageAttributes" ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	messageId: "messageId1234",
	correlationStrategy: "AUTO",
	correlationId: "correlationId",
	label: "my_label",
	partitionKey: "the_partition_key",
	timeToLive: 60,
	ttlTimeUnit: "SECONDS",
	scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc: "2018-12-09 03:01:00.000",
	properties: {
		property1: "value1",
		property2: "value2"
	}
}]]></ee:set-variable>
			</ee:variables>
		</ee:transform>
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:send doc:name="Queue Send" doc:id="50b3592c-f777-4667-b042-00fd266120e8" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" destinationName="${queue.name}" messageId='#[vars.messageAttributes.messageId]' correlationId="#[vars.messageAttributes.correlationId]" label="#[vars.messageAttributes.label]" sendCorrelationStrategy="#[vars.messageAttributes.correlationStrategy]" partitionKey="#[vars.messageAttributes.partitionKey]" timeToLive="#[vars.messageAttributes.timeToLive]" scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc='#[vars.messageAttributes.scheduledEnqueueTimeUtc  as LocalDateTime {format: "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSS"}]' timeToLiveTimeUnit="#[vars.messageAttributes.ttlTimeUnit]" properties="#[vars.messageAttributes.properties]">
		</azure-service-bus-messaging:send>
	</flow>
	<flow name="listener-manual-ack-flow" doc:id="541d4149-41b1-43e4-8d61-c16cf3ee502f" >
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:message-listener doc:name="Message listener" doc:id="cb61833e-9e1f-48b3-9430-a83b47c11a4c" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" ackMode="MANUAL" destinationName="${queue.name}" numberOfConsumers="1"/>
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Log the message" doc:id="d802b081-f3fc-4ec2-a23c-96bc0db3863c" message="#[payload]"/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Attributes to Json" doc:id="a509a361-4bd7-4c6e-81cc-39ad36e7b625" >
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
attributes]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Log Attributes" doc:id="94e7254c-a197-4fa2-b437-b64719acb23d" message="#[payload]"/>
		<azure-service-bus-messaging:complete-message doc:name="Ack of Message" doc:id="6aa7238b-3bc9-4a61-a39b-e1bd260ee7c5" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Messaging_Connector_Config" lockToken="#[attributes.lockToken]" />
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Log Lock Token" doc:id="a91eea3e-231a-4675-9457-b6c7366ab647" message='#["LockToken = " ++ payload.lockToken]'/>
	</flow>
</mule>
----
+
. When you are prompted to regenerate `doc:id` values, click *Yes*.
. Save the project.
. Right-click in the Studio canvas and select *Run project <project-name>* to run the project.

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/intro-use-exchange.adoc[Use Exchange to Discover Connectors, Templates, and Examples]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
