sap-s4hana-soap/2.2/modules/ROOT/pages/sap-s4hana-soap-connector-studio.adoc, before:

= Use Studio to Configure SAP S/4HANA SOAP Connector 2.2 - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::sap/sap-s4hana-soap-connector-studio.adoc

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-input-source,Configure an input source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.

If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Project

Add SAP S/4HANA SOAP Connector to a Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location, as well as to add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file.

. In Studio, create a Mule project.
. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type `SAP S/4HANA SOAP` in the search field.
. Click the SAP S/4HANA SOAP connector name in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure an Input Source

An input source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met. You can configure one of these input sources to use with SAP S/4HANA SOAP Connector:

* *Outbound Message Listener*, which listens for incoming SAP S/4HANA SOAP outbound messages
* *HTTP Listener*, which initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* *Scheduler*, which initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure *HTTP Listener*, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP* > *Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* tab, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Path* field.
. Click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of `HTTP Listener` in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify connection information.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify TLS information.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specific server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for SAP S/4HANA SOAP Connector, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *SAP S4 HANA SOAP* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas to the right of the input source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Global Configuration Elements

To use SAP S/4HANA SOAP Connector in a Mule app, you can configure a global SAP S/4HANA configuration element for use by SAP S/4HANA Connector operations in your application.

You can put placeholder values in the `mule-artifact.content` configuration file in the `src/main/resources` folder of your project.

You can either enter your credentials in the global configuration content or
reference a configuration file that contains the values for your credentials.
Using a configuration file is recommended for simpler maintenance and better reuse of your project. Keeping these values in a separate file is useful if you
need to deploy to different environments, such as production, development, and QA, where access credentials might differ.


=== Configure the SAP S/4HANA SOAP Config

When you configure a connector, it is best to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of that connector in the app. Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials the connector uses to access the target SAP S/4HANA system. SAP S/4HANA Connector supports both Basic authentication and OAuth 2.0 client credentials authentication.

To configure the global element for SAP S/4HANA SOAP Connector, follow these steps:

. In your project, click the *Global Elements* tab at the base of the canvas.
. In the *Global Configuration Elements* screen, click *Create*:
+
image::sap-hana-global-config-wizard.png[]
+
. In the *Choose Global Type* wizard, expand *Connector Configuration*, select *SAP S/4HANA SOAP Config*, and click *OK*.
. In the *General* tab, select the connection authentication from the *Connection* drop-down: +
* <<basic_authentication,*Basic authentication*>> +
* <<oauth-client-credentials,*OAuth 2 Client Credentials Authentication*>>
. Enter the required information for the selected connection type and click *OK*.
. Click *Test Connection* to ensure that your access credentials are correct.
. Click the *Advanced* tab to configure the following values:
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Studio Field |Description
|Discovery Service Enabled |Feature switch for service discovery. If disabled, the service discovery relative path is not applied.
|Discovery Service Path | Relative path from the base URL to the service to use for automatic services discovery
|Service directory |Common HTTP directory for all SAP services. You can leave this parameter blank and specify the HTTP directory individually for every service in the unlisted services list.
|Unlisted services |List of services to add to the list of discovered services
|Service discovery resolution timeout | Connection timeout for service discovery
|Service discovery timeout unit | Time unit to use in the service discovery resolution timeout configuration
|Default headers |Custom headers to include in each request sent
|Default query parameter |Custom query parameters to include in each request sent
|TLS configuration |TLS configuration
|Proxy configuration |Configuration for executing requests through a proxy
|===
+
. Click *OK* to save the global connector configuration.

[[basic_authentication]]
=== Basic Authentication

Enter the following information on the *General* tab of the *Global Element Properties* screen to configure Basic authentication:

* *Service Base URL* +
URL of the SAP S/4HANA instance you want to manage
* *Username* +
User name used to initialize the session
* *Password* +
Password used to authenticate the user

[[oauth-client-credentials]]
=== OAuth 2.0 Client Credentials Authentication

Enter the following required information on the *General* tab of the *Global Element Properties* screen to configure OAuth 2.0 client credentials authentication:

* *Service base URL* +
Base URL of the service provider of the SAP S/4HANA system to access from the connector +
All other endpoints are derived from the base URL.
* *Client ID* +
OAuth client ID that is registered with the service provider.
* *Client secret* +
OAuth client secret that corresponds to the client ID and is registered with the service provider.

=== Configure the SAP S/4HANA SOAP Listener Config

Use the Global Element Properties configuration dialog to configure a global element for SAP S/4HANA SOAP Connector:

. In your project, click the *Global Elements* tab at the base of the canvas.
. In the *Global Configuration Elements* screen, click *Create*:
+
image::sap-hana-source-global-config-wizard.png[]
+
. In the *Choose Global Type* wizard, expand *Connector Configuration*, select *SAP S/4HANA SOAP Listener Config*, and click *OK*.
. Configure the following values in the *General* tab:
* *HTTP Listener* +
   Reference to a global HTTPS Listener configuration, for example: `HTTPS_Listener_config`.
   This configuration must be secured by using **HTTPS protocol** in order to receive outbound messages from the SAP S/4HANA system.
* *WSDL Path* +
   Specify the paths to the WSDL definitions to use for resolving metadata keys.
* *Encoding* +
   Character encoding used in the messaging.
. Click *OK* to save the global connector configuration.

It is possible to share the same path between multiple sources, but sources that share a path cannot listen to the same message type.

The list of message types specifies the message types the source can listen to. Message types are built from the provided WSDL definitions. The message type *ANY*, which is always present, allows the source to listen to any outbound message type sent from the SAP S/4HANA system.

== Next Step

After configuring the SAP S/4HANA SOAP Connector for use in Studio, see the
xref:sap-s4hana-soap-connector-examples.adoc[Examples]
topic for more examples of configuring the connector in Studio.

== See Also

https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

add webservice addressing configuration tab description in studio.adoc,

sap-s4hana-soap/2.2/modules/ROOT/pages/sap-s4hana-soap-connector-studio.adoc, after:

= Use Studio to Configure SAP S/4HANA SOAP Connector 2.2 - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::sap/sap-s4hana-soap-connector-studio.adoc

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-input-source,Configure an input source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.

If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Project

Add SAP S/4HANA SOAP Connector to a Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location, as well as to add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file.

. In Studio, create a Mule project.
. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type `SAP S/4HANA SOAP` in the search field.
. Click the SAP S/4HANA SOAP connector name in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure an Input Source

An input source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met. You can configure one of these input sources to use with SAP S/4HANA SOAP Connector:

* *Outbound Message Listener*, which listens for incoming SAP S/4HANA SOAP outbound messages
* *HTTP Listener*, which initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* *Scheduler*, which initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure *HTTP Listener*, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP* > *Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* tab, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Path* field.
. Click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of `HTTP Listener` in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify connection information.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify TLS information.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specific server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for SAP S/4HANA SOAP Connector, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *SAP S4 HANA SOAP* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas to the right of the input source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Global Configuration Elements

To use SAP S/4HANA SOAP Connector in a Mule app, you can configure a global SAP S/4HANA configuration element for use by SAP S/4HANA Connector operations in your application.

You can put placeholder values in the `mule-artifact.content` configuration file in the `src/main/resources` folder of your project.

You can either enter your credentials in the global configuration content or
reference a configuration file that contains the values for your credentials.
Using a configuration file is recommended for simpler maintenance and better reuse of your project. Keeping these values in a separate file is useful if you
need to deploy to different environments, such as production, development, and QA, where access credentials might differ.


=== Configure the SAP S/4HANA SOAP Config

When you configure a connector, it is best to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of that connector in the app. Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials the connector uses to access the target SAP S/4HANA system. SAP S/4HANA Connector supports both Basic authentication and OAuth 2.0 client credentials authentication.

To configure the global element for SAP S/4HANA SOAP Connector, follow these steps:

. In your project, click the *Global Elements* tab at the base of the canvas.
. In the *Global Configuration Elements* screen, click *Create*:
+
image::sap-hana-global-config-wizard.png[]
+
. In the *Choose Global Type* wizard, expand *Connector Configuration*, select *SAP S/4HANA SOAP Config*, and click *OK*.
. In the *General* tab, select the connection authentication from the *Connection* drop-down: +
* <<basic_authentication,*Basic authentication*>> +
* <<oauth-client-credentials,*OAuth 2 Client Credentials Authentication*>>
. Enter the required information for the selected connection type and click *OK*.
. Click *Test Connection* to ensure that your access credentials are correct.
. Click *Addressing* tab to configure the following values:
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Studio Field |Description
|Version | WS-Addressing version. If nothing is specified, the connector will use the value from configuration.
|From| Reference of the endpoint where the message originated from. If nothing is specified, the connector will use the value from configuration.
|===

. Click the *Advanced* tab to configure the following values:
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Studio Field |Description
|Discovery Service Enabled |Feature switch for service discovery. If disabled, the service discovery relative path is not applied.
|Discovery Service Path | Relative path from the base URL to the service to use for automatic services discovery
|Service directory |Common HTTP directory for all SAP services. You can leave this parameter blank and specify the HTTP directory individually for every service in the unlisted services list.
|Unlisted services |List of services to add to the list of discovered services
|Service discovery resolution timeout | Connection timeout for service discovery
|Service discovery timeout unit | Time unit to use in the service discovery resolution timeout configuration
|Default headers |Custom headers to include in each request sent
|Default query parameter |Custom query parameters to include in each request sent
|TLS configuration |TLS configuration
|Proxy configuration |Configuration for executing requests through a proxy
|===
+
. Click *OK* to save the global connector configuration.

[[basic_authentication]]
=== Basic Authentication

Enter the following information on the *General* tab of the *Global Element Properties* screen to configure Basic authentication:

* *Service Base URL* +
URL of the SAP S/4HANA instance you want to manage
* *Username* +
User name used to initialize the session
* *Password* +
Password used to authenticate the user

[[oauth-client-credentials]]
=== OAuth 2.0 Client Credentials Authentication

Enter the following required information on the *General* tab of the *Global Element Properties* screen to configure OAuth 2.0 client credentials authentication:

* *Service base URL* +
Base URL of the service provider of the SAP S/4HANA system to access from the connector +
All other endpoints are derived from the base URL.
* *Client ID* +
OAuth client ID that is registered with the service provider.
* *Client secret* +
OAuth client secret that corresponds to the client ID and is registered with the service provider.

=== Configure the SAP S/4HANA SOAP Listener Config

Use the Global Element Properties configuration dialog to configure a global element for SAP S/4HANA SOAP Connector:

. In your project, click the *Global Elements* tab at the base of the canvas.
. In the *Global Configuration Elements* screen, click *Create*:
+
image::sap-hana-source-global-config-wizard.png[]
+
. In the *Choose Global Type* wizard, expand *Connector Configuration*, select *SAP S/4HANA SOAP Listener Config*, and click *OK*.
. Configure the following values in the *General* tab:
* *HTTP Listener* +
   Reference to a global HTTPS Listener configuration, for example: `HTTPS_Listener_config`.
   This configuration must be secured by using **HTTPS protocol** in order to receive outbound messages from the SAP S/4HANA system.
* *WSDL Path* +
   Specify the paths to the WSDL definitions to use for resolving metadata keys.
* *Encoding* +
   Character encoding used in the messaging.
. Click *OK* to save the global connector configuration.

It is possible to share the same path between multiple sources, but sources that share a path cannot listen to the same message type.

The list of message types specifies the message types the source can listen to. Message types are built from the provided WSDL definitions. The message type *ANY*, which is always present, allows the source to listen to any outbound message type sent from the SAP S/4HANA system.

== Next Step

After configuring the SAP S/4HANA SOAP Connector for use in Studio, see the
xref:sap-s4hana-soap-connector-examples.adoc[Examples]
topic for more examples of configuring the connector in Studio.

== See Also

https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
