java/1.2/modules/ROOT/pages/java-invoke-method.adoc, before:

= Invoke Methods - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::java/java-invoke-method.adoc

Java methods (either instance or static) can be called through the `invoke` and
`invoke static` operations in the Java module. Their return value is placed in the
payload of the output message or can be placed in a
xref:mule-runtime::target-variables.adoc[target variable].

== Invoke Instance Methods

In the following Java class `TaxCalculator`, belongs to the `com.me` package:

[source,java,linenums]
----
package com.me;

public class TaxCalculator {

    private Double percentBaseTax = 7.0;

    public Double calculateTax(Double price, Integer percentAdditionalTax) {
        return price * (this.percentBaseTax + percentAdditionalTax) / 100;
    }

    public Boolean isTaxFree(Double price) {
        if (price < 10) {
            return true;
        }
        return false;
    }
}
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
Unless the classes used with the Java module belong to the default package,
the classes must be exported; otherwise, execution fails with a JAVA:CLASS_NOT_FOUND error. See xref:mule-runtime::how-to-export-resources.adoc[how to export resources].
====

To invoke instance methods:

. Use the xref:java-create-instance.adoc[new operation] from the Java module to create an object on which a method is later invoked. This provides an instanced object that can then call one of its methods.
. Set the `invoke` operation to call one of the object's methods. Just like the `new` operation,
`invoke` takes a map for input parameters (if the method has them) and supports
xref:mule-runtime::target-variables[target parameters].

In the next example, an instance of the `TaxCalculator` class is created and placed
into the `taxCalculator` target variable. Then the `calculateTax(Double, Integer)` method is
called, which takes `price` and `percentAdditionalTax` as arguments, and its return value is
placed in the `totalTax` variable.

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<java:new class="com.me.TaxCalculator"
	constructor="TaxCalculator()"
	target="taxCalculator"/>

<java:invoke instance="#[vars.taxCalculator]"
  class="com.me.TaxCalculator"
  method="calculateTax(Double, Integer)"
  target="totalTax">
      <java:args>#[{
        price: 25.5,
        percentAdditionalTax: 2
      }]</java:args>
</java:invoke>
----

For the method parameters, the full package name can be specified, for example
`constructor="Person(java.lang.Double, java.lang.Integer)"`. This is not needed, but it can
be useful to add more clarity in the code or in the case there are clashing class names in the Java code.

In Anypoint Studio, the Java module supports DataSense for the `invoke` operation, which provides metadata
for both the input arguments and the output value.

In the example, DataSense discovers that `calculateTax` returns a `Number`, so
the output metadata for the `invoke` operation looks like:

image::invoke-output-metadata.png[]

For a complete example of using `invoke` in Studio, see <<studio_example>>.

When configuring the constructor arguments in the `args` parameter,
the keys of the map determine how the parameters are passed to the constructor.

To reference the parameters by name (`price`, `percentAdditionalTax`, etc.),
the Java class containing the method or constructor has to be compiled
using the
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/reflect/member/methodparameterreflection.html[`-parameters`]
compiler flag.
If the class was not compiled with this flag, the same parameters
must be referenced in the declared order and with the canonical names
(`arg0`, `arg1`, etc.).

In this case:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<java:args>#[{
  arg0: 25.5,
  arg1: 2
}]</java:args>
----

If the Java classes are defined in a Studio project, the Maven compiler plugin must be
configured in the `pom.xml` to compile Java classes with the `-parameters` flag:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<plugin>
    <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
    <artifactId>maven-compiler-plugin</artifactId>
    <version>3.8.1</version>
    <configuration>
        <compilerArgs>
            <arg>-parameters</arg>
        </compilerArgs>
    </configuration>
</plugin>
----

== Invoke Methods with DataWeave

The Java module also has a DataWeave function (`Java::invoke`) to provide the same functionality
as the `invoke` operation but inside a DataWeave expression. This practice is especially helpful for
methods that return `boolean` values. The function takes as arguments the full class name
of an object, the instance method to execute, the instanced object, and the method arguments as a map.

In the Java class in <<Invoke Instance Methods>>, this examples creates
a new instance of `TaxCalculator` and, rather than use the Java module `invoke` operation to call
the `isTaxFree(Double)` method, it embeds the DataWeave function in a
xref:mule-runtime::choice-router-concept.adoc[Choice] component:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<java:new class="com.foo.TaxCalculator"
	constructor="TaxCalculator()"
	target="taxCalculator"/>

<choice>
    <when
      expression="#[Java::invoke('com.foo.TaxCalculator', 'isTaxFree(Double)', vars.taxCalculator, {price: vars.price})]">
        <flow-ref name="skipTax" />
    </when>
</choice>
----

== Invoke Static Methods

An example on how to invoke static Java methods:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<java:invoke-static
	class="java.lang.Math"
	method="toRadians(double)">
    <java:args>#[{
        arg0: 180
    }]</java:args>
</java:invoke-static>
----

[[studio_example]]
== New and Invoke Operations in Studio

In Anypoint Studio, you can write or load a Java package into a project, configure
Java operations within one or more a flows, and run the Mule app in
which the operations reside.

image::java-module-ex.png[Java module example]

This example task sets up two flows in a Mule app:

. Write a small Java package: `com.examples`.
. Write two simple Java classes that contain instance methods: `Hello.java` and
`Add.java`.
. Use the Apache Maven compiler plug-in to compile the classes in a way that allows for
the use of named parameters in your configurations, instead of `arg0`, `arg1`,
and so on.
. Use the *New* operation in the Java module to instantiate the `Hello` and `Add`
objects and to access named parameters in the instance methods.
. Use the *Invoke* operation in the Java module to invoke the `hello()` and
`add(3,4)` instance methods.
. Run the Mule app to execute the *New* and *Invoke* operations in Studio.

Assume that you want to invoke methods in two simple Java classes:

[[hello_class]]
.Hello class with an instance method
[source,java,linenums]
----
package com.examples;

public class Hello {

  //Constructor
  public Hello() { }

  //Instance method: hello()
  //Returns the string "helloWorld".
  public String hello() {
    return "helloWorld";
  }
}
----

[[add_class]]
.Add a class with a parameterized instance method
[source,java,linenums]
----
public class Add {

  public int x = 0;
  public int y = 0;

  //Constructor
  public Add(int numA, int numB) {
	        x = numA;
	        y = numB;
  }

  //Instance method with parameters: add(int x, int y).
  //Returns the sum of inputs x and y.
  public int add(int x, int y) {
    return x + y;
  }
}
----

To create a Mule app that invokes `hello()` and `add()`:

. In Studio, select *File* > *New* > *Project*, provide a project
name (`javaexamples`), and click *Finish*.
. Create a Java package for your classes by right-clicking your Mule
project's `src/main/java` directory in *Package Explorer*.
. Select *New* > *Package*.
. Provide the package name `com.examples` in the *Name* field.
. Click *Finish*.
+
Make sure that the package `com.examples` appears under the `src/main/java`
directory.
+
. Add the Java code for the `Hello` and `Add` classes to your new `com.examples`
package by right-clicking your new `com.examples` package in Studio, and select *New* > *Class*.
. In the *Name* field, type `Hello.java` for the `Hello` class, and click *Finish*.
. Copy and paste the `Hello` class content into the `Hello.java` file from the listing that follows.
+
The entire file looks like this, including `package com.examples` at the top:
+
[source,java,linenums]
----
package com.examples;

public class Hello {

  //Constructor
  public Hello() { }

  //Instance method: hello()
  //Returns the string "helloWorld".
  public String hello() {
    return "helloWorld";
  }
}
----
+
. Right-click your new `com.examples` package in Studio, and select
*New* > *Class*.
. In the *Name* field, typ the `Add.java` value.
. Click *Finish*.
. Copy and paste the class content into the `Add.java` file.
+
The entire file looks like this, including `package com.examples` at the top:
+
[source,java,linenums]
----
package com.examples;

public class Add {

  public int x = 0;
  public int y = 0;

  //Constructor
  public Add(int numA, int numB) {
          x = numA;
          y = numB;
  }

  //Instance method with parameters: add(int x, int y).
  //Returns the sum of inputs x and y.
  public int add(int x, int y) {
    return x + y;
  }
}
----
+
. Click the *javaexamples* tab in Studio to return to your Mule app, and set
up a flow for the `Hello` class and the `hello()` method:
.. In *javaexamples*, provide a trigger for the flow by dragging a *Scheduler*
component into the Studio canvas.
+
Optional: You can also set the frequency for the *Scheduler* component to a value other
than the default: for example, set *Frequency* to `10` and *Time unit* to `SECONDS`.
+
.. If the Java module is not already available in your Mule palette, click
*Add Module* and drag the Java module into the left column of the palette.
.. Click the Java module, place its *New* operation to the right of the
Scheduler in the flow, and then double-click and configure the operation:
+
* *Class*: `com.examples.Hello`
* *Constructor*: `Hello()`
+
Do not click *fx* for the *Constructor* setting.
+
.. Place the *Invoke* operation to the right of the *New* operation in the flow,
and double-click and configure the operation:
+
* In the *Instance* field, click *fx*, and set the value to `payload`.
* *Class* field: `com.examples.Hello`
* *Method* field: `hello()`
+
Do not click *fx* for the *Method* setting.
+
.. Find and drag a *Logger* component to the right of the *Invoke* operation in the
flow, and in its *Message* field, click *fx* and type `payload`.
.. Find and drag a *Flow Reference* component to the right of the *Logger* component,
and then double-click the component and set the *Flow Name* field to
`javaexamplesFlow1`, the name of a new flow that you create in the next step.
. Set up a new flow by dragging a new *Flow* component below the existing flow,
making sure that its name is `javaexamplesFlow1` (so that your *Flow Reference*
setting in the other flow matches the name of this new flow).
.. Click the Java module, then drag a *New* operation to the *Process*
section of your new flow, `javaexamplesFlow1`, and provide the following
configuration for the operation:
+
* *Args*: `{ "numA" : 5, "numB" : 6}` for the arguments.
* *Class*: `com.examples.Add`
* *Constructor*: `Add(int,int)`
+
Do not click *fx* for the *Constructor* setting.
+
.. Place an *Invoke* operation to the right of the *New* operation in your new flow,
and provide the following configuration:
+
* Click *fx*, and set the *Instance* field: `payload`.
* *Args*: `{ "x" : 3, "y" : 4}` for the arguments to process during the invocation
* *Class*: `com.examples.Add`
* *Method*: `add(int,int)`
+
Do not click *fx* for the *Method* setting.
+
.. Continue with the *New* operation, and click the *Advanced* configuration link, and
set the *Output* value to a target variable that stores the payload of the Invoke operation:
+
* *Target Variable*: `mySum`
* *Target Value*: `payload`
+
This step shows how to pass the payload to a target variable if you
ever need to do so.
+
.. Place a *Logger* component to the right of the *Invoke* operation in the
new flow, click *fx*, and set the *Message* field to `vars.mySum`.
+
This *Logger* setting is for displaying the payload stored in the target
variable in the Studio console.
+
. To make any named parameters readable, add XML for the Mule compiler
plugin to the `pom.xml` file for your Mule project:
+
.. In the *Package Explorer*, double-click `pom.xml`,
located at the bottom the *javaexamples* project.
+
.. Add the Mule compiler plugin XML between the
`<build><plugins></plugins></build>` elements in the `pom.xml` file,
retaining any plugins that are already defined there.
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<build>
  <plugins>
    <!-- any other plugins -->
----
+
Paste this XML into your POM file:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
    <plugin>
      <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
      <artifactId>maven-compiler-plugin</artifactId>
      <version>3.8.1</version>
      <configuration>
        <parameters>true</parameters>
        <source>1.8</source>
        <target>1.8</target>
        </configuration>
    </plugin>
----
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
</plugins>
</build>
----
+
If you try to use named parameters in the *New* operation without adding the Maven compiler
plugin XML, the *New* operation fails with a message similar to:
+
`Failed to instantiate Class [com.examples.Add] with arguments [Integer numA, Integer numB].
Expected arguments are [int arg0, int arg1]`
+
. Return to your Mule app by clicking the *javaexamples* tab in Studio.
. Run the Mule app by selecting *Run* > *Run* from the top set of menus.
. Once the project deploys successfully, check the *Console* for the
expected output.
+
You should see something like this in the console (shortened for readability):
+
[source,txt,linenums]
----
INFO  2019-09-22 09:21:32 ... [event: 4c31f...] ... LoggerMessageProcessor: helloWorld
INFO  2019-09-22 09:21:32 ... [event: 4c31f...] ... LoggerMessageProcessor: 7
----

* `helloWorld` is the output value for *javaexamplesFlow*.
* `7` is the output value for *javaexamplesFlow1*.

== See Also

* xref:java-throwable.adoc[Work With Throwables]
* xref:java-argument-transformation.adoc[Java Module Argument Transformation]
* xref:java-reference.adoc[Java Module Reference]

Commit message:

Adding inline link to clarify operation parameters

java/1.2/modules/ROOT/pages/java-invoke-method.adoc, after:

= Invoke Methods - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::java/java-invoke-method.adoc

Java methods (either instance or static) can be called through the `invoke` and
`invoke static` operations in the Java module. Their return value is placed in the
payload of the output message or can be placed in a
xref:mule-runtime::target-variables.adoc[target variable].

To get a detailed description of the configurable parameters for the Java Invoke operation, review the xref:java-reference.adoc#operations[Java module reference operations section].

== Invoke Instance Methods

In the following Java class `TaxCalculator`, belongs to the `com.me` package:

[source,java,linenums]
----
package com.me;

public class TaxCalculator {

    private Double percentBaseTax = 7.0;

    public Double calculateTax(Double price, Integer percentAdditionalTax) {
        return price * (this.percentBaseTax + percentAdditionalTax) / 100;
    }

    public Boolean isTaxFree(Double price) {
        if (price < 10) {
            return true;
        }
        return false;
    }
}
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
Unless the classes used with the Java module belong to the default package,
the classes must be exported; otherwise, execution fails with a JAVA:CLASS_NOT_FOUND error. See xref:mule-runtime::how-to-export-resources.adoc[how to export resources].
====

To invoke instance methods:

. Use the xref:java-create-instance.adoc[new operation] from the Java module to create an object on which a method is later invoked. This provides an instanced object that can then call one of its methods.
. Set the `invoke` operation to call one of the object's methods. Just like the `new` operation,
`invoke` takes a map for input parameters (if the method has them) and supports
xref:mule-runtime::target-variables[target parameters].

In the next example, an instance of the `TaxCalculator` class is created and placed
into the `taxCalculator` target variable. Then the `calculateTax(Double, Integer)` method is
called, which takes `price` and `percentAdditionalTax` as arguments, and its return value is
placed in the `totalTax` variable.

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<java:new class="com.me.TaxCalculator"
	constructor="TaxCalculator()"
	target="taxCalculator"/>

<java:invoke instance="#[vars.taxCalculator]"
  class="com.me.TaxCalculator"
  method="calculateTax(Double, Integer)"
  target="totalTax">
      <java:args>#[{
        price: 25.5,
        percentAdditionalTax: 2
      }]</java:args>
</java:invoke>
----

For the method parameters, the full package name can be specified, for example
`constructor="Person(java.lang.Double, java.lang.Integer)"`. This is not needed, but it can
be useful to add more clarity in the code or in the case there are clashing class names in the Java code.

In Anypoint Studio, the Java module supports DataSense for the `invoke` operation, which provides metadata
for both the input arguments and the output value.

In the example, DataSense discovers that `calculateTax` returns a `Number`, so
the output metadata for the `invoke` operation looks like:

image::invoke-output-metadata.png[]

For a complete example of using `invoke` in Studio, see <<studio_example>>.

When configuring the constructor arguments in the `args` parameter,
the keys of the map determine how the parameters are passed to the constructor.

To reference the parameters by name (`price`, `percentAdditionalTax`, etc.),
the Java class containing the method or constructor has to be compiled
using the
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/reflect/member/methodparameterreflection.html[`-parameters`]
compiler flag.
If the class was not compiled with this flag, the same parameters
must be referenced in the declared order and with the canonical names
(`arg0`, `arg1`, etc.).

In this case:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<java:args>#[{
  arg0: 25.5,
  arg1: 2
}]</java:args>
----

If the Java classes are defined in a Studio project, the Maven compiler plugin must be
configured in the `pom.xml` to compile Java classes with the `-parameters` flag:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<plugin>
    <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
    <artifactId>maven-compiler-plugin</artifactId>
    <version>3.8.1</version>
    <configuration>
        <compilerArgs>
            <arg>-parameters</arg>
        </compilerArgs>
    </configuration>
</plugin>
----

== Invoke Methods with DataWeave

The Java module also has a DataWeave function (`Java::invoke`) to provide the same functionality
as the `invoke` operation but inside a DataWeave expression. This practice is especially helpful for
methods that return `boolean` values. The function takes as arguments the full class name
of an object, the instance method to execute, the instanced object, and the method arguments as a map.

In the Java class in <<Invoke Instance Methods>>, this examples creates
a new instance of `TaxCalculator` and, rather than use the Java module `invoke` operation to call
the `isTaxFree(Double)` method, it embeds the DataWeave function in a
xref:mule-runtime::choice-router-concept.adoc[Choice] component:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<java:new class="com.foo.TaxCalculator"
	constructor="TaxCalculator()"
	target="taxCalculator"/>

<choice>
    <when
      expression="#[Java::invoke('com.foo.TaxCalculator', 'isTaxFree(Double)', vars.taxCalculator, {price: vars.price})]">
        <flow-ref name="skipTax" />
    </when>
</choice>
----

== Invoke Static Methods

An example on how to invoke static Java methods:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<java:invoke-static
	class="java.lang.Math"
	method="toRadians(double)">
    <java:args>#[{
        arg0: 180
    }]</java:args>
</java:invoke-static>
----

[[studio_example]]
== New and Invoke Operations in Studio

In Anypoint Studio, you can write or load a Java package into a project, configure
Java operations within one or more a flows, and run the Mule app in
which the operations reside.

image::java-module-ex.png[Java module example]

This example task sets up two flows in a Mule app:

. Write a small Java package: `com.examples`.
. Write two simple Java classes that contain instance methods: `Hello.java` and
`Add.java`.
. Use the Apache Maven compiler plug-in to compile the classes in a way that allows for
the use of named parameters in your configurations, instead of `arg0`, `arg1`,
and so on.
. Use the *New* operation in the Java module to instantiate the `Hello` and `Add`
objects and to access named parameters in the instance methods.
. Use the *Invoke* operation in the Java module to invoke the `hello()` and
`add(3,4)` instance methods.
. Run the Mule app to execute the *New* and *Invoke* operations in Studio.

Assume that you want to invoke methods in two simple Java classes:

[[hello_class]]
.Hello class with an instance method
[source,java,linenums]
----
package com.examples;

public class Hello {

  //Constructor
  public Hello() { }

  //Instance method: hello()
  //Returns the string "helloWorld".
  public String hello() {
    return "helloWorld";
  }
}
----

[[add_class]]
.Add a class with a parameterized instance method
[source,java,linenums]
----
public class Add {

  public int x = 0;
  public int y = 0;

  //Constructor
  public Add(int numA, int numB) {
	        x = numA;
	        y = numB;
  }

  //Instance method with parameters: add(int x, int y).
  //Returns the sum of inputs x and y.
  public int add(int x, int y) {
    return x + y;
  }
}
----

To create a Mule app that invokes `hello()` and `add()`:

. In Studio, select *File* > *New* > *Project*, provide a project
name (`javaexamples`), and click *Finish*.
. Create a Java package for your classes by right-clicking your Mule
project's `src/main/java` directory in *Package Explorer*.
. Select *New* > *Package*.
. Provide the package name `com.examples` in the *Name* field.
. Click *Finish*.
+
Make sure that the package `com.examples` appears under the `src/main/java`
directory.
+
. Add the Java code for the `Hello` and `Add` classes to your new `com.examples`
package by right-clicking your new `com.examples` package in Studio, and select *New* > *Class*.
. In the *Name* field, type `Hello.java` for the `Hello` class, and click *Finish*.
. Copy and paste the `Hello` class content into the `Hello.java` file from the listing that follows.
+
The entire file looks like this, including `package com.examples` at the top:
+
[source,java,linenums]
----
package com.examples;

public class Hello {

  //Constructor
  public Hello() { }

  //Instance method: hello()
  //Returns the string "helloWorld".
  public String hello() {
    return "helloWorld";
  }
}
----
+
. Right-click your new `com.examples` package in Studio, and select
*New* > *Class*.
. In the *Name* field, typ the `Add.java` value.
. Click *Finish*.
. Copy and paste the class content into the `Add.java` file.
+
The entire file looks like this, including `package com.examples` at the top:
+
[source,java,linenums]
----
package com.examples;

public class Add {

  public int x = 0;
  public int y = 0;

  //Constructor
  public Add(int numA, int numB) {
          x = numA;
          y = numB;
  }

  //Instance method with parameters: add(int x, int y).
  //Returns the sum of inputs x and y.
  public int add(int x, int y) {
    return x + y;
  }
}
----
+
. Click the *javaexamples* tab in Studio to return to your Mule app, and set
up a flow for the `Hello` class and the `hello()` method:
.. In *javaexamples*, provide a trigger for the flow by dragging a *Scheduler*
component into the Studio canvas.
+
Optional: You can also set the frequency for the *Scheduler* component to a value other
than the default: for example, set *Frequency* to `10` and *Time unit* to `SECONDS`.
+
.. If the Java module is not already available in your Mule palette, click
*Add Module* and drag the Java module into the left column of the palette.
.. Click the Java module, place its *New* operation to the right of the
Scheduler in the flow, and then double-click and configure the operation:
+
* *Class*: `com.examples.Hello`
* *Constructor*: `Hello()`
+
Do not click *fx* for the *Constructor* setting.
+
.. Place the *Invoke* operation to the right of the *New* operation in the flow,
and double-click and configure the operation:
+
* In the *Instance* field, click *fx*, and set the value to `payload`.
* *Class* field: `com.examples.Hello`
* *Method* field: `hello()`
+
Do not click *fx* for the *Method* setting.
+
.. Find and drag a *Logger* component to the right of the *Invoke* operation in the
flow, and in its *Message* field, click *fx* and type `payload`.
.. Find and drag a *Flow Reference* component to the right of the *Logger* component,
and then double-click the component and set the *Flow Name* field to
`javaexamplesFlow1`, the name of a new flow that you create in the next step.
. Set up a new flow by dragging a new *Flow* component below the existing flow,
making sure that its name is `javaexamplesFlow1` (so that your *Flow Reference*
setting in the other flow matches the name of this new flow).
.. Click the Java module, then drag a *New* operation to the *Process*
section of your new flow, `javaexamplesFlow1`, and provide the following
configuration for the operation:
+
* *Args*: `{ "numA" : 5, "numB" : 6}` for the arguments.
* *Class*: `com.examples.Add`
* *Constructor*: `Add(int,int)`
+
Do not click *fx* for the *Constructor* setting.
+
.. Place an *Invoke* operation to the right of the *New* operation in your new flow,
and provide the following configuration:
+
* Click *fx*, and set the *Instance* field: `payload`.
* *Args*: `{ "x" : 3, "y" : 4}` for the arguments to process during the invocation
* *Class*: `com.examples.Add`
* *Method*: `add(int,int)`
+
Do not click *fx* for the *Method* setting.
+
.. Continue with the *New* operation, and click the *Advanced* configuration link, and
set the *Output* value to a target variable that stores the payload of the Invoke operation:
+
* *Target Variable*: `mySum`
* *Target Value*: `payload`
+
This step shows how to pass the payload to a target variable if you
ever need to do so.
+
.. Place a *Logger* component to the right of the *Invoke* operation in the
new flow, click *fx*, and set the *Message* field to `vars.mySum`.
+
This *Logger* setting is for displaying the payload stored in the target
variable in the Studio console.
+
. To make any named parameters readable, add XML for the Mule compiler
plugin to the `pom.xml` file for your Mule project:
+
.. In the *Package Explorer*, double-click `pom.xml`,
located at the bottom the *javaexamples* project.
+
.. Add the Mule compiler plugin XML between the
`<build><plugins></plugins></build>` elements in the `pom.xml` file,
retaining any plugins that are already defined there.
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<build>
  <plugins>
    <!-- any other plugins -->
----
+
Paste this XML into your POM file:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
    <plugin>
      <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
      <artifactId>maven-compiler-plugin</artifactId>
      <version>3.8.1</version>
      <configuration>
        <parameters>true</parameters>
        <source>1.8</source>
        <target>1.8</target>
        </configuration>
    </plugin>
----
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
</plugins>
</build>
----
+
If you try to use named parameters in the *New* operation without adding the Maven compiler
plugin XML, the *New* operation fails with a message similar to:
+
`Failed to instantiate Class [com.examples.Add] with arguments [Integer numA, Integer numB].
Expected arguments are [int arg0, int arg1]`
+
. Return to your Mule app by clicking the *javaexamples* tab in Studio.
. Run the Mule app by selecting *Run* > *Run* from the top set of menus.
. Once the project deploys successfully, check the *Console* for the
expected output.
+
You should see something like this in the console (shortened for readability):
+
[source,txt,linenums]
----
INFO  2019-09-22 09:21:32 ... [event: 4c31f...] ... LoggerMessageProcessor: helloWorld
INFO  2019-09-22 09:21:32 ... [event: 4c31f...] ... LoggerMessageProcessor: 7
----

* `helloWorld` is the output value for *javaexamplesFlow*.
* `7` is the output value for *javaexamplesFlow1*.

== See Also

* xref:java-throwable.adoc[Work With Throwables]
* xref:java-argument-transformation.adoc[Java Module Argument Transformation]
* xref:java-reference.adoc[Java Module Reference]
