aggregators/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/aggregators-size-timeout.adoc, before:

= Configure Size-Based Aggregator Timeout and Max Size Fields - Mule 4

To understand the Aggregators module *Size based aggregator* timeout behavior, review the following diagram that explains how the *Timeout* and *Max size* fields work. Then learn how to configure these fields in Anypoint Studio and in the XML editor in a Mule application example.

Consider the following definitions:

* The *Max size* field indicates the total number of elements to be aggregated before considering the aggregation complete.
* The *Timeout* field indicates the maximum time to wait for the aggregation to complete.

.Size-Based Aggregator Timeout and Max Size behavior diagram
image::aggregator-size-timeout-diagram.png[]

* The first process indicates that the aggregation is complete because the aggregated elements reached the total number of required elements before the timeout occurred.

* The second process indicates that the aggregation is not complete because the aggregated elements did not reach the total number of required elements before the timeout occurred, which causes a reset of the aggregation.

* The third process indicates that you can use an *Aggregator listener* source to capture the elements that were aggregated before the timeout occurred. The source triggers when the timeout occurs.

If you choose to use an *Aggregator listener* source to capture incomplete aggregation elements, you must select the *Include timed out group* field to indicate that the source is triggered when the timeout occurs.

== Configure the Mule Application

The following example shows how to configure the *Size based Aggregator* scope to aggregate up to `3` HTTP request calls within `10` seconds. The application uses DataWeave to set the payload of each call with a random ID number. When the aggregation reaches the `3` calls required for completion and before the timeout occurs, the application logs all the aggregated elements. Otherwise, the application logs only the aggregated elements captured by the *Aggregator listener* source when the timeout occurred.


.Size-Based Aggregator Flow Example
image::aggregator-size-timeout-example.png[Size-Based Aggregator Flow Example in Anypoint Studio Canvas]

To test this example in your own environment, you must create the Mule application and test it with curl commands.


To create the Mule flow in Anypoint Studio:

. In *Mule Palette*, select *HTTP Listener* and drag it onto the canvas. +
The source initiates the flow by listening for incoming HTTP message attributes.
. In *Connector configuration*, select *HTTP_Listener_config*.
. Set *Path* to `/test`.
. Drag a *Transform message* component to the right of *Listener*.
. In the DataSense preview window of the *Transform message* component, add the following DataWeave expression, which sets to each HTTP request payload a `Source Name` as `"size-based"` and a `Source ID` as `random() as String`:
+
[source,DataWeave,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
    "Source Name": "size-based",
    "Source ID": (random() as String)
}
----
[start=6]
. Drag the *Size based aggregator* scope to the right of *Transform message*.
. Set *Name* to `sizeBasedAggregator`.
. Set *Max size* to `3`.
. Set *Timeout* to `10`.
. Set *Content* to `payload`, which is the expression that defines what to aggregate: in this case, the transformed HTTP requests.
. Drag a *Logger* component into the *Incremental aggregation* route.
. In the *Logger* configuration screen, set *Message* to `Doing incremental aggregation step.` +
. Drag a *Logger* component into the *Aggregation complete* route.
. Set *Message* to `Aggregation complete`.
. Drag another *Logger* component to the right of the first *Logger* component in *Aggregation complete*.
. Set *Message* to the following expression, which returns all the aggregated elements:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
output application/json
---
payload
----
. Drag an *Aggregator listener* source below the first flow.
. Set *Aggregator name* to `sizeBasedAggregator`, which listens to the previous aggregator. +
. Select *Include timed out groups*, that indicates whether the listener should be triggered when the timeout occurs.
. Drag a *Logger* component to the right of the *Aggregation listener* source.
. Set *Message* to the following expression, which returns only the aggregated elements before the timeout occurs:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
output application/json
---
payload
----
. Save the project.
. In *Package Explorer*, click *Run > Run As > Mule Application*.
. Test the app by sending the following curl command within 10 seconds: +
`curl -X POST http://localhost:8086/test` +
. Navigate to the *Console* view to read the logger message:

```
INFO  2021-06-22 12:59:16,319 [[MuleRuntime].uber.12: [aggregator-size-demo].aggregator-size-demoFlow.CPU_INTENSIVE @7992f689] [processor: aggregator-size-demoFlow/processors/1/route/0/processors/0; event: cbc219c0-d372-11eb-b975-f01898ad2638] org.mule.runtime.core.internal.processor.LoggerMessageProcessor: Doing incremental aggregation step.
INFO  2021-06-22 12:59:26,328 [[MuleRuntime].uber.12: [aggregator-size-demo].aggregator-size-demoFlow1.CPU_LITE @684a1bef] [processor: aggregator-size-demoFlow1/processors/0; event: d6b48f00-d36f-11eb-b975-f01898ad2638] org.mule.runtime.core.internal.processor.LoggerMessageProcessor: [
  {
    "Source Name": "size-based",
    "Source ID": "0.6568747259174192"
  }
]

```
This example logger message shows that for the first HTTP request, the *Logger* component in the *Incremental aggregator* route logs the message `Doing incremental aggregation step.` After the aggregation reaches the `10` seconds, the timeout occurs. The *Aggregation listener* source captures the only HTTP request call and the subsequent *Logger* component returns the aggregated payload element, which is the random ID number.


== XML for Size-Based Aggregator Timeout Max Size Example

Paste this code into your Studio XML editor to quickly load the flow for this example into your Mule app:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<mule xmlns:db="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/db" xmlns:aggregators="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/aggregators"
	xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core"
	xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http" xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core" xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/aggregators http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/aggregators/current/mule-aggregators.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/db http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/db/current/mule-db.xsd">
	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8086" />
	</http:listener-config>
	<flow name="aggregator-size-demoFlow"  >
		<http:listener doc:name="Listener"  config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/test" allowedMethods="POST"/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message" >
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
    "Source Name": "size-based",
    "Source ID": (random() as String)
}]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
		<aggregators:size-based-aggregator doc:name="Size based aggregator"  name="sizeBasedAggregator" maxSize="3" timeout="10">
			<aggregators:incremental-aggregation>
				<logger level="INFO"  message="Doing incremental aggregation step." />
			</aggregators:incremental-aggregation>
			<aggregators:aggregation-complete>
				<logger level="INFO"  message="Aggregation complete" />
				<logger level="INFO" message="#[output application/json
---
payload]" />
			</aggregators:aggregation-complete>
		</aggregators:size-based-aggregator>
	</flow>
	<flow name="aggregator-size-demoFlow1"  >
		<aggregators:aggregator-listener  aggregatorName="sizeBasedAggregator" includeTimedOutGroups="true"/>
		<logger level="INFO" message="#[output application/json&#10;---&#10;payload]"/>
	</flow>
</mule>
----

== See Also

* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

Cross-refered links for Aggregators Module Example

aggregators/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/aggregators-size-timeout.adoc, after:

= Configure Size-Based Aggregator Timeout and Max Size Fields - Mule 4

To understand the Aggregators module *Size based aggregator* timeout behavior, review the following diagram that explains how the *Timeout* and *Max size* fields work. Then learn how to configure these fields in Anypoint Studio and in the XML editor in a Mule application example.

Consider the following definitions:

* The *Max size* field indicates the total number of elements to be aggregated before considering the aggregation complete.
* The *Timeout* field indicates the maximum time to wait for the aggregation to complete.

.Size-Based Aggregator Timeout and Max Size behavior diagram
image::aggregator-size-timeout-diagram.png[]

* The first process indicates that the aggregation is complete because the aggregated elements reached the total number of required elements before the timeout occurred.

* The second process indicates that the aggregation is not complete because the aggregated elements did not reach the total number of required elements before the timeout occurred, which causes a reset of the aggregation.

* The third process indicates that you can use an *Aggregator listener* source to capture the elements that were aggregated before the timeout occurred. The source triggers when the timeout occurs.

If you choose to use an *Aggregator listener* source to capture incomplete aggregation elements, you must select the *Include timed out group* field to indicate that the source is triggered when the timeout occurs.

== Configure the Mule Application

The following example shows how to configure the *Size based Aggregator* scope to aggregate up to `3` HTTP request calls within `10` seconds. The application uses DataWeave to set the payload of each call with a random ID number. When the aggregation reaches the `3` calls required for completion and before the timeout occurs, the application logs all the aggregated elements. Otherwise, the application logs only the aggregated elements captured by an *Aggregator listener* source when the timeout occurred.


.Size-Based Aggregator Flow Example
image::aggregator-size-timeout-example.png[Size-Based Aggregator Flow Example in Anypoint Studio Canvas]

To test this example in your own environment, you must create the Mule application and test it with curl commands.


To create the Mule flow in Anypoint Studio:

. In *Mule Palette*, select *HTTP Listener* and drag it onto the canvas. +
The source initiates the flow by listening for incoming HTTP message attributes.
. In *Connector configuration*, select *HTTP_Listener_config*.
. Set *Path* to `/test`.
. Drag a *Transform message* component to the right of *Listener*.
. In the DataSense preview window of the *Transform message* component, add the following DataWeave expression, which sets to each HTTP request payload a `Source Name` as `"size-based"` and a `Source ID` as `random() as String`:
+
[source,DataWeave,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
    "Source Name": "size-based",
    "Source ID": (random() as String)
}
----
[start=6]
. Drag the *Size based aggregator* scope to the right of *Transform message*.
. Set *Name* to `sizeBasedAggregator`.
. Set *Max size* to `3`.
. Set *Timeout* to `10`.
. Set *Content* to `payload`, which is the expression that defines what to aggregate: in this case, the transformed HTTP requests.
. Drag a *Logger* component into the *Incremental aggregation* route.
. In the *Logger* configuration screen, set *Message* to `Doing incremental aggregation step.` +
. Drag a *Logger* component into the *Aggregation complete* route.
. Set *Message* to `Aggregation complete`.
. Drag another *Logger* component to the right of the first *Logger* component in *Aggregation complete*.
. Set *Message* to the following expression, which returns all the aggregated elements:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
output application/json
---
payload
----
. Drag an *Aggregator listener* source below the first flow.
. Set *Aggregator name* to `sizeBasedAggregator`, which listens to the previous aggregator. +
. Select *Include timed out groups*, that indicates whether the listener should be triggered when the timeout occurs.
. Drag a *Logger* component to the right of the *Aggregation listener* source.
. Set *Message* to the following expression, which returns only the aggregated elements before the timeout occurs:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
output application/json
---
payload
----
. Save the project.
. In *Package Explorer*, click *Run > Run As > Mule Application*.
. Test the app by sending the following curl command within 10 seconds: +
`curl -X POST http://localhost:8086/test` +
. Navigate to the *Console* view to read the logger message:

```
INFO  2021-06-22 12:59:16,319 [[MuleRuntime].uber.12: [aggregator-size-demo].aggregator-size-demoFlow.CPU_INTENSIVE @7992f689] [processor: aggregator-size-demoFlow/processors/1/route/0/processors/0; event: cbc219c0-d372-11eb-b975-f01898ad2638] org.mule.runtime.core.internal.processor.LoggerMessageProcessor: Doing incremental aggregation step.
INFO  2021-06-22 12:59:26,328 [[MuleRuntime].uber.12: [aggregator-size-demo].aggregator-size-demoFlow1.CPU_LITE @684a1bef] [processor: aggregator-size-demoFlow1/processors/0; event: d6b48f00-d36f-11eb-b975-f01898ad2638] org.mule.runtime.core.internal.processor.LoggerMessageProcessor: [
  {
    "Source Name": "size-based",
    "Source ID": "0.6568747259174192"
  }
]

```
This example logger message shows that for the first HTTP request, the *Logger* component in the *Incremental aggregator* route logs the message `Doing incremental aggregation step.` After the aggregation reaches the `10` seconds, the timeout occurs. The *Aggregation listener* source captures the only HTTP request call and the subsequent *Logger* component returns the aggregated payload element, which is the random ID number.


== XML for Size-Based Aggregator Timeout Max Size Example

Paste this code into your Studio XML editor to quickly load the flow for this example into your Mule app:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<mule xmlns:db="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/db" xmlns:aggregators="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/aggregators"
	xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core"
	xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http" xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core" xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/aggregators http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/aggregators/current/mule-aggregators.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/db http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/db/current/mule-db.xsd">
	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8086" />
	</http:listener-config>
	<flow name="aggregator-size-demoFlow"  >
		<http:listener doc:name="Listener"  config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/test" allowedMethods="POST"/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message" >
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
    "Source Name": "size-based",
    "Source ID": (random() as String)
}]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
		<aggregators:size-based-aggregator doc:name="Size based aggregator"  name="sizeBasedAggregator" maxSize="3" timeout="10">
			<aggregators:incremental-aggregation>
				<logger level="INFO"  message="Doing incremental aggregation step." />
			</aggregators:incremental-aggregation>
			<aggregators:aggregation-complete>
				<logger level="INFO"  message="Aggregation complete" />
				<logger level="INFO" message="#[output application/json
---
payload]" />
			</aggregators:aggregation-complete>
		</aggregators:size-based-aggregator>
	</flow>
	<flow name="aggregator-size-demoFlow1"  >
		<aggregators:aggregator-listener  aggregatorName="sizeBasedAggregator" includeTimedOutGroups="true"/>
		<logger level="INFO" message="#[output application/json&#10;---&#10;payload]"/>
	</flow>
</mule>
----

== See Also

* xref:aggregators-examples.adoc[Aggregators Module Examples]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
