aggregators/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/aggregators-module-reference.adoc, before:

= Aggregators Module Reference - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::aggregator/aggregators-module-reference.adoc

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

Aggregators Module v1.0

Release Notes: xref:release-notes::connector/aggregators-module-release-notes.adoc[Aggregators Module Release Notes]

An Aggregator is a component that receives some data, processes it to extract some value and then adds that value to a list of aggregated elements. After that, and depending on the configuration, the list of elements is sent to a set of components.

Aggregators are pass-through routers, meaning that the same data that is received by the aggregator is going to be processed by the components that follow it. The only modifications are the propagation of variables in case any is set while executing any of the aggregation routes.

When an aggregator releases the stored values, the list of aggregated elements is processed either by a route within the aggregator itself or in another Mule Flow, through an aggregator listener. All of that depends on the type and configuration of the aggregator being used.

== Configurations

There is no configuration for Aggregators because the module is based only on operations. Each different type of aggregator is a different operation that configurable through its parameters.

However, there are a couple of common parameters that are worth mentioning beforehand:

* Content:
+
The expression that defines what to aggregate. The result of the evaluation is the value stored in the aggregation.
Since all data related to an aggregator is stored in an Object Store, it's really important that the content value is `Serializable`.
Otherwise, there is no assurance that the module will work properly.
+
* Object Store:
+
All information related to an aggregator is stored in an Object Store. The type of Object Store should relate to the expected behavior of the component.
+
Generally speaking:
+
** Persistent Object Store (Default): More reliable, permits data recovery after restart. Slower.
** In Memory Object Store: Faster. Loses all the data if the application is restarted.

== Aggregator Types

There are size-based, time-based, and group-based aggregators.

[[size-based-aggregator]]
=== Size-Based Aggregator

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<aggregators:size-based-aggregator  name="sizeBasedAggregator"
                                    maxSize="10"
                                    timeout="60"
                                    timeoutUnit="MINUTES"
                                    objectStore="exampleObjectStore">
    <aggregators:content>
        #[payload]
    </aggregators:content>
    <aggregators:incremental-aggregation>
        ...
    </aggregators:incremental-aggregation>
    <aggregators:aggregation-complete>
        ...
    </aggregators:aggregation-complete>
</aggregators:size-based-aggregator>
----

This example aggregates elements until a pre-defined size is reached, executing the routes and listeners.

==== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Name | String | The name of the aggregator. It can later be referenced by an aggregator listener. || x
| Content | Expression | The expression that defines what to aggregate. The result of the evaluation is the value stored in the aggregation. | #[payload] |
| Max Size | Number | The total number of elements to be aggregated before considering the aggregation complete. | | x
| Timeout | Number |  A maximum time to wait for the aggregation to complete. If the timeout is reached before the total number of elements is equal to max size, the aggregation is not considered complete. A value of `0` is not supported to avoid timing out the group constantly. | -1(UNLIMITED) |
| Timeout unit | Time Unit | The time unit in which to measure the timeout. |  SECONDS |
| Object Store | Object Store |  Either a name to reference a global object store or a definition of a private object store where the aggregated elements will be stored. |  Default Object Store partition. |
| Aggregation Complete Route | Route | Components chain to execute once the aggregation is complete. The Aggregation Complete Route does not execute if the timeout is reached. | | x
| Incremental Aggregation Route | Route | Components chain to execute for every new element that is aggregated. The payload is the list of all the elements that have been aggregated from the first one (in this aggregation) to the one that is being aggregated now. | |
|===


==== Raises

* AGGREGATORS:AGGREGATOR_CONFIG
+
Whenever maxSize or timeout have invalid values (for example, `maxSize < 0`).
+
* AGGREGATORS:OBJECT_STORE_ACCESS
+
If there is any issue accessing the ObjectStore used to store the aggregated values.

---
image::size-based-aggregator.png[Size based Aggregator]
. Input Data
. Aggregated elements (Not complete)
. Aggregated elements (Complete)
. Input Data (same as 1) + New Variables
. Aggregated elements, one of :
.. `maxSize` reached (same as 3)
.. `timeout` (only if timed out groups are accepted)

---

[[time-based-aggregator]]
=== Time-Based Aggregator

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<aggregators:time-based-aggregator  name="timeBasedAggregator"
                                    period="60"
                                    periodUnit="MINUTES"
                                    maxSize="10"
                                    objectStore="exampleObjectStore">
    <aggregators:content>
        #[payload]
    </aggregators:content>
    <aggregators:incremental-aggregation>
        ...
    </aggregators:incremental-aggregation>
</aggregators:time-based-aggregator>
----

Aggregates elements until a time period is completed, executing the routes and listeners.

==== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Name | String | The name of the aggregator. It can later be referenced by an aggregator listener. || x
| Content | Expression | The expression that defines what to aggregate. The result of the evaluation is the value stored in the aggregation. | #[payload] |
| Period | Number |  A time period to wait before considering the aggregation to be complete. | | x
| Period unit | Time Unit | The time unit in which to measure the time period. |  SECONDS |
| Max Size | Number | The total number of elements to be aggregated before considering the aggregation to be complete. | -1(UNLIMITED) |
| Object Store | Object Store |  Either a name to reference a global object store or a definition of a private object store where the aggregated elements will be stored. |  Default Object Store partition. |
| Incremental Aggregation Route | Route | Components chain to be executed for every new element that is aggregated. The payload is the list of all the elements that have been aggregated from the first one (in this aggregation) to the one that is being aggregated now. | |
|===

==== Raises

* AGGREGATORS:AGGREGATOR_CONFIG
+
Whenever period or `maxSize` has invalid values (for example, `Period = 0`).
+
* AGGREGATORS:OBJECT_STORE_ACCESS
+
If there is any issue accessing the ObjectStore used to store the aggregated values.

---
image::time-based-aggregator.png[Time based Aggregator]
. Input Data
. Aggregated elements (Not complete)
. Aggregated elements, one of:
.. `period` completed (only if timed out groups are accepted)
.. `maxSize` reached
. Input Data (same as 1) + New Variables

---


[[group-based-aggregator]]
=== Group-Based Aggregator

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<aggregators:group-based-aggregator name="groupBasedAggregator"
                                    groupId="#[correlationId]"
                                    groupSize="#[itemSequenceInfo.sequenceSize]"
                                    evictionTime="180"
                                    evictionTimeUnit="SECONDS"
                                    timeout="60"
                                    timeoutUnit="MINUTES"
                                    objectStore="exampleObjectStore">
    <aggregators:content>
        #[payload]
    </aggregators:content>
    <aggregators:incremental-aggregation>
        ...
    </aggregators:incremental-aggregation>
    <aggregators:aggregation-complete>
        ...
    </aggregators:aggregation-complete>
</aggregators:group-based-aggregator>
----


Aggregates elements in different groups according to a group ID.

Every time a new element reaches the aggregator, an ID will be resolved. If a group with that ID already exists in the aggregator, the value will be added to that group. Otherwise, a new group with that ID will be created and the received element will be the first element in that group's aggregation.

Some important concepts appear with the group-based aggregator:

* Group timeout: When a group has to be released because all the necessary elements for the group did not arrive within the expected time. If a group has timed out but is not yet evicted, it will reject attempts to add any new values to that group.

* Group eviction: When a group is removed from the aggregator, regardless of whether it was completed or timed out. If a new element with that group's ID is received by the aggregator, the group will be created again.

Lastly, when elements that reach group-based aggregators come from a sequence that was splitted (by a xref:mule-runtime::for-each-scope-concept.adoc[ForEach] component for example), each will have assigned a different `sequenceNumber`. In that case, they are sorted in increasing order prior to the aggregation release.

==== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Name | String | The name of the aggregator. It can later be used to be referenced by an aggregator listener || x
| Content | Expression | The expression that defines what to aggregate. The result of the evaluation is the value stored in the aggregation. | #[payload] |
| Group Id | Expression | The expression to be evaluated for every new message received in order to get the ID for the group where it should be aggregated. | #[correlationId] |
| Group Size | Number | The maximum size to assign to the group with the group ID resolved. All messages with the same group ID must have the same group size. If not, only the first resolved group size will be considered correct, and a warning will be logged for every one that does not match it. | #[itemSequenceInfo.sequenceSize] |
| Eviction Time | Number | The time to remember a group ID once it was completed or timed out (0 means: don't remember, -1: remember forever) | 180 |
| Eviction Time Unit | Time Unit | The time unit for the Eviction Time. | SECONDS |
| Timeout | Number |  A maximum time to wait for the aggregation of a group to complete. If the timeout is reached before the total number of elements in that group is equal to the group's size, the aggregation will be considered complete. To avoid constant group timeouts, a value of `0` is not supported. | -1(UNLIMITED) |
| Timeout unit | Time Unit | The time unit in which to measure the timeout. |  SECONDS |
| Object Store | Object Store |  Either a name to reference a global object store or a definition of a private object store where the aggregated elements will be stored. |  Default Object Store partition |
| Aggregation Complete Route | Route |  Components chain to execute once the aggregation is complete. | | x
| Incremental Aggregation Route | Route | Components chain to execute for every new element that is aggregated. The payload is the list of all the elements that have been aggregated from the first one (in this aggregation) to the one that is being aggregated now. | |
|===

==== Raises

* AGGREGATORS:GROUP_COMPLETED
+
When a new element has to be added to an already completed group (and the group was not yet evicted).
+
* AGGREGATORS:GROUP_TIMED_OUT
+
When a new element has to be added to a group that timed out (and the group was not yet evicted).
+
* AGGREGATORS:NO_GROUP_ID
+
When the expression that resolves to the group ID returns null.
+
* AGGREGATORS:NO_GROUP_SIZE
+
When the expression that resolves to the group size returns null.
+
* AGGREGATORS:AGGREGATOR_CONFIG
+
When the group size or timeout has invalid values (for example, `groupSize < 0`).
* AGGREGATORS:OBJECT_STORE_ACCESS
+
If there is any issue accessing the ObjectStore used to store the aggregated values.

---
image::group-based-aggregator.png[Group based Aggregator]
. Input Data
. Aggregated elements (Not complete)
. Aggregated elements (Complete)
. Input Data (same as 1) + New Variables
. Aggregated elements, one of :
.. `groupSize` reached (same as 3)
.. `timeout` (only if timed out groups are accepted)




== Sources

[[aggregator-listener]]
=== Aggregator Listener

`<aggregators:aggregator-listener aggregatorName="exampleAggregator" includeTimedOutGroups="false">`

[IMPORTANT]
Listeners are only able to reference aggregators that are inside a flow. If an aggregator is declared in a sub-flow, it will not be visible to listeners.

Once the aggregator that is referenced by the listener completes an aggregation, the listener is triggered with a list of all the elements. Though the aggregation listener can be used for any kind of aggregator, it is important for time-driven (Async) aggregations. Such aggregations are triggered asynchronously, so they do not execute an aggregator route and can only reach components in flows with an aggregator listener as the source.

Because the aggregator listener is a source, it is located in a different flow than the aggregator. The listener cannot access the context from the aggregator's flow, and therefore, cannot access that flow's variables.

==== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Aggregator Name | String | The name of the aggregator to listen to. Once that aggregator releases its elements, the listener will be executed. Each listener can only reference one aggregator, and each aggregator can only be referenced by at most one listener. | | x
| Include Timed Out Groups | Boolean | Indicates whether the listener should be triggered when a group is released due to a timeout. | false |
|===

== Aggregation Attributes

Each time a message goes through an aggregation, some attributes with information about the aggregation are added to it.

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description
| Aggregation ID | String | The ID from the group where the element was aggregated. If the aggregation strategy does not aggregate by group, this field will be an autogenerated value that is kept until the aggregation is released (as with group-based and time-based aggregators).
| First Item Arrival Time | Date | The time when the first value was aggregated.
| Last Item Arrival Time | Date | The time when the last value was aggregated.
| Is Aggregation Complete | Boolean | True if the aggregation is complete, False otherwise.
|===

== Async Versus Sync Aggregations

There are two kinds of triggers for an aggregation completion: Synchronous and Asynchronous. +
As seen in the configurations, an aggregation can be considered complete based on a new element being added to the list (as when a max size is specified) or because some timeout or time period was completed. _This is important because the type of aggregation determines which chain of components to execute with the list of elements._

[IMPORTANT]
Each time counter associated with an aggregator starts counting from the moment the first message of a group arrives. Once the aggregation is complete, the counter resets and waits for the next element to arrive. +
For single-group aggregators (time-based and size-based aggregators), there is only one time counter, but for the group-based aggregator, there is one counter per group.

For aggregations completed because a new element arrives (Sync), at least one of the following things will happen:

* If the aggregator was configured with an `aggregation-complete` route, the components inside that route will be executed with the payload being the list of aggregated elements. +
* If the aggregator has a listener hooked, the flow which that listener belongs to will be executed, with the payload being the list of aggregated elements.

For aggregations completed due to a time period or timeout being reached (Async), the only thing that can happen is:

* If the aggregator has a listener hooked and the listener accepts timed-out aggregations, the flow which that listener belongs to will be executed, with the payload being the list of aggregated elements. +

This is very important and should always be present when creating an application that contains an aggregator.

As a general rule:

* If the aggregation depends on time, all the logic for processing it should be in a different flow, with an aggregation listener as source.
* If it depends on a size being reached, the logic can be declared in the `aggregation-complete` route.
* If it can be both, then a good approach is to:
** Add the main logic in a sub-flow with no source. You can check the `isAggregationComplete` attribute to check how the aggregation ended.
** Add a flow reference to the main logic flow in the `aggregation-complete` route. If the sub-flow is executed by this flow reference, then `isAggregationComplete` will be true.
** Add another flow with an aggregation listener that listens to the aggregator and accepts timed-out groups. The listener should be followed by a Flow Reference component that calls the main logic sub-flow. In this case, `isAggregationComplete` will be false.

== Aggregators in a Cluster

The module is developed to work in a cluster out-of-the-box. However, to prevent unexpected behavior, you need to take into account these configuration details:

When an Async aggregation is defined and the first element arrives, it is scheduled in the primary node of the cluster. Because new values can arrive in any node of the cluster, we need a way to notify and make the primary node schedule that aggregation.
To do that, another task in the primary node periodically determines whether it is necessary to schedule a new aggregation or not.
This can lead to a problem if the interval between checks for new aggregation scheduling is much longer than the actual timeout of the aggregation, because the aggregation could be over before it is scheduled, or there might be errors in the time computation.

To avoid this issue, you can configure the frequency at which the primary node checks for new aggregations to be scheduled.
You can define this value using either:

* The global configuration property (in ms) `aggregatorsSchedulingPeriod`
* The system property `-M-Dmule.aggregatorsSchedulingPeriod`


== Object Store Configuration

For any aggregator, an object store can be configured either by referencing a global OS or creating a private one.

.Global
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<aggregators:size-based-aggregator name="globalOSAggregator"
                                   maxSize="10"
                                   objectStore="aGlobalObjectStore">

----

.Private
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<aggregators:size-based-aggregator  name="privateOSAggregator" maxSize="10">
    ...
    <aggregators:object-store>
        <os:private-object-store alias="privateObjectStore" persistent="false"/>
    </aggregators:object-store>
</aggregators:group-based-aggregator>
----


[[see_also]]
== See Also

* xref:aggregator-examples.adoc[Aggregators usage examples]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

AMOD-4: Aggregrator won't work when using persistent object store and more that one worker.

aggregators/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/aggregators-module-reference.adoc, after:

= Aggregators Module Reference - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::aggregator/aggregators-module-reference.adoc

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

Aggregators Module v1.0

Release Notes: xref:release-notes::connector/aggregators-module-release-notes.adoc[Aggregators Module Release Notes]

An Aggregator is a component that receives some data, processes it to extract some value and then adds that value to a list of aggregated elements. After that, and depending on the configuration, the list of elements is sent to a set of components.

Aggregators are pass-through routers, meaning that the same data that is received by the aggregator is going to be processed by the components that follow it. The only modifications are the propagation of variables in case any is set while executing any of the aggregation routes.

When an aggregator releases the stored values, the list of aggregated elements is processed either by a route within the aggregator itself or in another Mule Flow, through an aggregator listener. All of that depends on the type and configuration of the aggregator being used.

== Configurations

There is no configuration for Aggregators because the module is based only on operations. Each different type of aggregator is a different operation that configurable through its parameters.

However, there are a couple of common parameters that are worth mentioning beforehand:

* Content:
+
The expression that defines what to aggregate. The result of the evaluation is the value stored in the aggregation.
Since all data related to an aggregator is stored in an Object Store, it's really important that the content value is `Serializable`.
Otherwise, there is no assurance that the module will work properly.
+
* Object Store:
+
All information related to an aggregator is stored in an Object Store. The type of Object Store should relate to the expected behavior of the component.
+
Generally speaking:
+
** Persistent Object Store (Default): More reliable, permits data recovery after restart. Slower.
** In Memory Object Store: Faster. Loses all the data if the application is restarted.

== Aggregator Types

There are size-based, time-based, and group-based aggregators.

[[size-based-aggregator]]
=== Size-Based Aggregator

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<aggregators:size-based-aggregator  name="sizeBasedAggregator"
                                    maxSize="10"
                                    timeout="60"
                                    timeoutUnit="MINUTES"
                                    objectStore="exampleObjectStore">
    <aggregators:content>
        #[payload]
    </aggregators:content>
    <aggregators:incremental-aggregation>
        ...
    </aggregators:incremental-aggregation>
    <aggregators:aggregation-complete>
        ...
    </aggregators:aggregation-complete>
</aggregators:size-based-aggregator>
----

This example aggregates elements until a pre-defined size is reached, executing the routes and listeners.

==== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Name | String | The name of the aggregator. It can later be referenced by an aggregator listener. || x
| Content | Expression | The expression that defines what to aggregate. The result of the evaluation is the value stored in the aggregation. | #[payload] |
| Max Size | Number | The total number of elements to be aggregated before considering the aggregation complete. | | x
| Timeout | Number |  A maximum time to wait for the aggregation to complete. If the timeout is reached before the total number of elements is equal to max size, the aggregation is not considered complete. A value of `0` is not supported to avoid timing out the group constantly. | -1(UNLIMITED) |
| Timeout unit | Time Unit | The time unit in which to measure the timeout. |  SECONDS |
| Object Store | Object Store |  Either a name to reference a global object store or a definition of a private object store where the aggregated elements will be stored. |  Default Object Store partition. |
| Aggregation Complete Route | Route | Components chain to execute once the aggregation is complete. The Aggregation Complete Route does not execute if the timeout is reached. | | x
| Incremental Aggregation Route | Route | Components chain to execute for every new element that is aggregated. The payload is the list of all the elements that have been aggregated from the first one (in this aggregation) to the one that is being aggregated now. | |
|===


==== Raises

* AGGREGATORS:AGGREGATOR_CONFIG
+
Whenever maxSize or timeout have invalid values (for example, `maxSize < 0`).
+
* AGGREGATORS:OBJECT_STORE_ACCESS
+
If there is any issue accessing the ObjectStore used to store the aggregated values.

---
image::size-based-aggregator.png[Size based Aggregator]
. Input Data
. Aggregated elements (Not complete)
. Aggregated elements (Complete)
. Input Data (same as 1) + New Variables
. Aggregated elements, one of :
.. `maxSize` reached (same as 3)
.. `timeout` (only if timed out groups are accepted)

---

[[time-based-aggregator]]
=== Time-Based Aggregator

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<aggregators:time-based-aggregator  name="timeBasedAggregator"
                                    period="60"
                                    periodUnit="MINUTES"
                                    maxSize="10"
                                    objectStore="exampleObjectStore">
    <aggregators:content>
        #[payload]
    </aggregators:content>
    <aggregators:incremental-aggregation>
        ...
    </aggregators:incremental-aggregation>
</aggregators:time-based-aggregator>
----

Aggregates elements until a time period is completed, executing the routes and listeners.

==== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Name | String | The name of the aggregator. It can later be referenced by an aggregator listener. || x
| Content | Expression | The expression that defines what to aggregate. The result of the evaluation is the value stored in the aggregation. | #[payload] |
| Period | Number |  A time period to wait before considering the aggregation to be complete. | | x
| Period unit | Time Unit | The time unit in which to measure the time period. |  SECONDS |
| Max Size | Number | The total number of elements to be aggregated before considering the aggregation to be complete. | -1(UNLIMITED) |
| Object Store | Object Store |  Either a name to reference a global object store or a definition of a private object store where the aggregated elements will be stored. |  Default Object Store partition. |
| Incremental Aggregation Route | Route | Components chain to be executed for every new element that is aggregated. The payload is the list of all the elements that have been aggregated from the first one (in this aggregation) to the one that is being aggregated now. | |
|===

==== Raises

* AGGREGATORS:AGGREGATOR_CONFIG
+
Whenever period or `maxSize` has invalid values (for example, `Period = 0`).
+
* AGGREGATORS:OBJECT_STORE_ACCESS
+
If there is any issue accessing the ObjectStore used to store the aggregated values.

---
image::time-based-aggregator.png[Time based Aggregator]
. Input Data
. Aggregated elements (Not complete)
. Aggregated elements, one of:
.. `period` completed (only if timed out groups are accepted)
.. `maxSize` reached
. Input Data (same as 1) + New Variables

---


[[group-based-aggregator]]
=== Group-Based Aggregator

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<aggregators:group-based-aggregator name="groupBasedAggregator"
                                    groupId="#[correlationId]"
                                    groupSize="#[itemSequenceInfo.sequenceSize]"
                                    evictionTime="180"
                                    evictionTimeUnit="SECONDS"
                                    timeout="60"
                                    timeoutUnit="MINUTES"
                                    objectStore="exampleObjectStore">
    <aggregators:content>
        #[payload]
    </aggregators:content>
    <aggregators:incremental-aggregation>
        ...
    </aggregators:incremental-aggregation>
    <aggregators:aggregation-complete>
        ...
    </aggregators:aggregation-complete>
</aggregators:group-based-aggregator>
----


Aggregates elements in different groups according to a group ID.

Every time a new element reaches the aggregator, an ID will be resolved. If a group with that ID already exists in the aggregator, the value will be added to that group. Otherwise, a new group with that ID will be created and the received element will be the first element in that group's aggregation.

Some important concepts appear with the group-based aggregator:

* Group timeout: When a group has to be released because all the necessary elements for the group did not arrive within the expected time. If a group has timed out but is not yet evicted, it will reject attempts to add any new values to that group.

* Group eviction: When a group is removed from the aggregator, regardless of whether it was completed or timed out. If a new element with that group's ID is received by the aggregator, the group will be created again.

Lastly, when elements that reach group-based aggregators come from a sequence that was splitted (by a xref:mule-runtime::for-each-scope-concept.adoc[ForEach] component for example), each will have assigned a different `sequenceNumber`. In that case, they are sorted in increasing order prior to the aggregation release.

==== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Name | String | The name of the aggregator. It can later be used to be referenced by an aggregator listener || x
| Content | Expression | The expression that defines what to aggregate. The result of the evaluation is the value stored in the aggregation. | #[payload] |
| Group Id | Expression | The expression to be evaluated for every new message received in order to get the ID for the group where it should be aggregated. | #[correlationId] |
| Group Size | Number | The maximum size to assign to the group with the group ID resolved. All messages with the same group ID must have the same group size. If not, only the first resolved group size will be considered correct, and a warning will be logged for every one that does not match it. | #[itemSequenceInfo.sequenceSize] |
| Eviction Time | Number | The time to remember a group ID once it was completed or timed out (0 means: don't remember, -1: remember forever) | 180 |
| Eviction Time Unit | Time Unit | The time unit for the Eviction Time. | SECONDS |
| Timeout | Number |  A maximum time to wait for the aggregation of a group to complete. If the timeout is reached before the total number of elements in that group is equal to the group's size, the aggregation will be considered complete. To avoid constant group timeouts, a value of `0` is not supported. | -1(UNLIMITED) |
| Timeout unit | Time Unit | The time unit in which to measure the timeout. |  SECONDS |
| Object Store | Object Store |  Either a name to reference a global object store or a definition of a private object store where the aggregated elements will be stored. |  Default Object Store partition |
| Aggregation Complete Route | Route |  Components chain to execute once the aggregation is complete. | | x
| Incremental Aggregation Route | Route | Components chain to execute for every new element that is aggregated. The payload is the list of all the elements that have been aggregated from the first one (in this aggregation) to the one that is being aggregated now. | |
|===

==== Raises

* AGGREGATORS:GROUP_COMPLETED
+
When a new element has to be added to an already completed group (and the group was not yet evicted).
+
* AGGREGATORS:GROUP_TIMED_OUT
+
When a new element has to be added to a group that timed out (and the group was not yet evicted).
+
* AGGREGATORS:NO_GROUP_ID
+
When the expression that resolves to the group ID returns null.
+
* AGGREGATORS:NO_GROUP_SIZE
+
When the expression that resolves to the group size returns null.
+
* AGGREGATORS:AGGREGATOR_CONFIG
+
When the group size or timeout has invalid values (for example, `groupSize < 0`).
* AGGREGATORS:OBJECT_STORE_ACCESS
+
If there is any issue accessing the ObjectStore used to store the aggregated values.

---
image::group-based-aggregator.png[Group based Aggregator]
. Input Data
. Aggregated elements (Not complete)
. Aggregated elements (Complete)
. Input Data (same as 1) + New Variables
. Aggregated elements, one of :
.. `groupSize` reached (same as 3)
.. `timeout` (only if timed out groups are accepted)




== Sources

[[aggregator-listener]]
=== Aggregator Listener

`<aggregators:aggregator-listener aggregatorName="exampleAggregator" includeTimedOutGroups="false">`

[IMPORTANT]
Listeners are only able to reference aggregators that are inside a flow. If an aggregator is declared in a sub-flow, it will not be visible to listeners.

Once the aggregator that is referenced by the listener completes an aggregation, the listener is triggered with a list of all the elements. Though the aggregation listener can be used for any kind of aggregator, it is important for time-driven (Async) aggregations. Such aggregations are triggered asynchronously, so they do not execute an aggregator route and can only reach components in flows with an aggregator listener as the source.

Because the aggregator listener is a source, it is located in a different flow than the aggregator. The listener cannot access the context from the aggregator's flow, and therefore, cannot access that flow's variables.

==== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Aggregator Name | String | The name of the aggregator to listen to. Once that aggregator releases its elements, the listener will be executed. Each listener can only reference one aggregator, and each aggregator can only be referenced by at most one listener. | | x
| Include Timed Out Groups | Boolean | Indicates whether the listener should be triggered when a group is released due to a timeout. | false |
|===

== Aggregation Attributes

Each time a message goes through an aggregation, some attributes with information about the aggregation are added to it.

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description
| Aggregation ID | String | The ID from the group where the element was aggregated. If the aggregation strategy does not aggregate by group, this field will be an autogenerated value that is kept until the aggregation is released (as with group-based and time-based aggregators).
| First Item Arrival Time | Date | The time when the first value was aggregated.
| Last Item Arrival Time | Date | The time when the last value was aggregated.
| Is Aggregation Complete | Boolean | True if the aggregation is complete, False otherwise.
|===

== Async Versus Sync Aggregations

There are two kinds of triggers for an aggregation completion: Synchronous and Asynchronous. +
As seen in the configurations, an aggregation can be considered complete based on a new element being added to the list (as when a max size is specified) or because some timeout or time period was completed. _This is important because the type of aggregation determines which chain of components to execute with the list of elements._

[IMPORTANT]
Each time counter associated with an aggregator starts counting from the moment the first message of a group arrives. Once the aggregation is complete, the counter resets and waits for the next element to arrive. +
For single-group aggregators (time-based and size-based aggregators), there is only one time counter, but for the group-based aggregator, there is one counter per group.

For aggregations completed because a new element arrives (Sync), at least one of the following things will happen:

* If the aggregator was configured with an `aggregation-complete` route, the components inside that route will be executed with the payload being the list of aggregated elements. +
* If the aggregator has a listener hooked, the flow which that listener belongs to will be executed, with the payload being the list of aggregated elements.

For aggregations completed due to a time period or timeout being reached (Async), the only thing that can happen is:

* If the aggregator has a listener hooked and the listener accepts timed-out aggregations, the flow which that listener belongs to will be executed, with the payload being the list of aggregated elements. +

This is very important and should always be present when creating an application that contains an aggregator.

As a general rule:

* If the aggregation depends on time, all the logic for processing it should be in a different flow, with an aggregation listener as source.
* If it depends on a size being reached, the logic can be declared in the `aggregation-complete` route.
* If it can be both, then a good approach is to:
** Add the main logic in a sub-flow with no source. You can check the `isAggregationComplete` attribute to check how the aggregation ended.
** Add a flow reference to the main logic flow in the `aggregation-complete` route. If the sub-flow is executed by this flow reference, then `isAggregationComplete` will be true.
** Add another flow with an aggregation listener that listens to the aggregator and accepts timed-out groups. The listener should be followed by a Flow Reference component that calls the main logic sub-flow. In this case, `isAggregationComplete` will be false.

== Aggregators in a Cluster

[IMPORTANT]
Aggregators won't work with multiple workers and a persistent Object Store because clustering is not available in CloudHub, see xref:runtime-manager::cloudhub-fabric.adoc[CloudHub Fabric] for details on how workers can be shared or doubled to scale your application and provide high availability.

The module is developed to work in a cluster out-of-the-box. However, to prevent unexpected behavior, you need to take into account these configuration details:

When an Async aggregation is defined and the first element arrives, it is scheduled in the primary node of the cluster. Because new values can arrive in any node of the cluster, we need a way to notify and make the primary node schedule that aggregation.
To do that, another task in the primary node periodically determines whether it is necessary to schedule a new aggregation or not.
This can lead to a problem if the interval between checks for new aggregation scheduling is much longer than the actual timeout of the aggregation, because the aggregation could be over before it is scheduled, or there might be errors in the time computation.

To avoid this issue, you can configure the frequency at which the primary node checks for new aggregations to be scheduled.
You can define this value using either:

* The global configuration property (in ms) `aggregatorsSchedulingPeriod`
* The system property `-M-Dmule.aggregatorsSchedulingPeriod`


== Object Store Configuration

For any aggregator, an object store can be configured either by referencing a global OS or creating a private one.

.Global
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<aggregators:size-based-aggregator name="globalOSAggregator"
                                   maxSize="10"
                                   objectStore="aGlobalObjectStore">

----

.Private
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<aggregators:size-based-aggregator  name="privateOSAggregator" maxSize="10">
    ...
    <aggregators:object-store>
        <os:private-object-store alias="privateObjectStore" persistent="false"/>
    </aggregators:object-store>
</aggregators:group-based-aggregator>
----


[[see_also]]
== See Also

* xref:aggregator-examples.adoc[Aggregators usage examples]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
