microsoft-dotnet/3.1/modules/ROOT/pages/microsoft-dotnet-connector-examples.adoc, before:

= Microsoft .Net Connector 3.1 Examples - Mule 4

The following use case...
*Reviewers - please summarize what this use case does*

image::microsoft-dotnet-use-case.png[Studio Flow Diagram]

. Create a new Mule project in Studio.
. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for `http and` select the *Listener* operation.
. Drag the *Listener* operation onto the Studio canvas.
. In the *Listener* configuration, click *+* next to the *Connector configuration* field to add a global element.
. Set the *Host* field to `localhost` and the *Port* field to `8081`.
. Click *OK*.
. Set the *Path* field to `sumOfDigits`.
. From the *Mule palette* view, drag the *Transform Message* component to right of *Listener*.
. Click *Transform Message* and set the output as follows:
+
[source,dataweave,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
number: payload.num
----
+
. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for `dotnet` and select the *Microsoft DotNet* > *Execute* operation.
. Drag the *Execute* operation onto the Studio canvas, to the right of *Transform Message*.
. In the *Execute* configuration, click *+* next to the *Connector configuration* field to add a global element.
. In the *Type* field, enter the following:
+
`DemoDotNet.NumberLibrary, DemoDotNet, Version=1.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=PUBLIC_KEY_TOKEN`
+
. In the *Method* field, enter the following:
+
`DemoDotNet.NumberLibrary, DemoDotNet, Version=1.0.0.0,
		Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=PUBLIC_KEY_TOKEN | SumOfDigits(System.Int32 number) -> System.Int32`
+
. From the *Mule palette* view, drag a second *Transform Message* component to right of *Listener*.
. Click *Transform Message* and set the output as follows:
+
[source,dataweave,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
payload
----
+
. Test the app by sending a REST request to `localhost:8081`.

== Use Case XML

Paste this code into your Studio XML editor to quickly load the flow for this example into your Mule app:

[source,xml,linenums]
----

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<mule xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core"
xmlns:dotnet="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/dotnet"
xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/dotnet
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/dotnet/current/mule-dotnet.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd">
	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config"
	doc:name="HTTP Listener config">
	<http:listener-connection host="localhost" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>
	<dotnet:dot-net-config name="Microsoft_DotNet" doc:name="Microsoft DotNet">
		<dotnet:resource-connection scope="Singleton" path="DemoDotNet.dll" />
	</dotnet:dot-net-config>
	<flow name="sum-of-digits">
		<http:listener doc:name="Listener"
		config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config"
		path="/sumOfDigits"/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message">
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	number: payload.num
}]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
		<dotnet:execute doc:name="Execute" config-ref="Microsoft_DotNet"
		type="DemoDotNet.NumberLibrary, DemoDotNet, Version=1.0.0.0,
		Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=PUBLIC_KEY_TOKEN"
		method="DemoDotNet.NumberLibrary, DemoDotNet, Version=1.0.0.0,
		Culture=neutral,
		PublicKeyToken=PUBLIC_KEY_TOKEN | SumOfDigits(System.Int32 number) -&gt; System.Int32"/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message">
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
payload]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
	</flow>

</mule>
----

== See Also
* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

Updated the example, fixed the Studio filename

microsoft-dotnet/3.1/modules/ROOT/pages/microsoft-dotnet-connector-examples.adoc, after:

= Microsoft .Net Connector 3.1 Examples - Mule 4

The following use case...
*Reviewers - please summarize what this use case does and also look at the example carefully.*

image::microsoft-dotnet-use-case.png[Studio Flow Diagram]

. Create a new Mule project in Studio.
. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for `http` and select the *Listener* operation.
. Drag the *Listener* operation onto the Studio canvas.
. In the *Listener* configuration, click *+* next to the *Connector configuration* field to add a global element.
. Set the *Host* field to `localhost`.
. Set the *Path* field to `sumOfDigits`.
. From the *Mule palette* view, drag a *Transform Message* component to right of *Listener*.
. Click *Transform Message* and set the output as follows *Reviewers, what does this code transform?*:
+
[source,dataweave,linenums]
----
----
dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{number: payload.num
}
----
+
. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for `dotnet` and drag the *Microsoft DotNet* > *Execute* operation onto the Studio canvas, to the right of *Transform Message*.
. In the *Execute* configuration, click *+* next to the *Connector configuration* field to add a global element.
. In the *Scope* field, select `Singleton`.
. Click *OK*.
. *What should go here for the global element?*
. In the *Type* field, enter the following: *Reviewers, can you summarize what code is called and what it does?*
+
`DemoDotNet.NumberLibrary, DemoDotNet, Version=1.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=PUBLIC_KEY_TOKEN`
+
. In the *Method* field, enter the following: *Reviewers, can you summarize what code is and what it does?*
+
`DemoDotNet.NumberLibrary, DemoDotNet, Version=1.0.0.0,
		Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=PUBLIC_KEY_TOKEN | SumOfDigits(System.Int32 number) -> System.Int32`
+
. From the *Mule palette* view, drag a second *Transform Message* component to right of *Execute*.
. Click *Transform Message* and set the output as follows to transform the result of the *Execute* operation to JAVA:
+
[source,dataweave,linenums]
----
dw 2.0
output application/json
---
payload
----
+
. Save the project.
. Test the app by sending a REST request to `localhost:8081`.

== Use Case XML

Paste this code into your Studio XML editor to quickly load the flow for this example into your Mule app:

[source,xml,linenums]
----

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<mule xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core"
xmlns:dotnet="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/dotnet"
xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/dotnet
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/dotnet/current/mule-dotnet.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd">
	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config"
	doc:name="HTTP Listener config">
	<http:listener-connection host="localhost" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>
	<dotnet:dot-net-config name="Microsoft_DotNet" doc:name="Microsoft DotNet">
		<dotnet:resource-connection scope="Singleton" path="DemoDotNet.dll" />
	</dotnet:dot-net-config>
	<flow name="sum-of-digits">
		<http:listener doc:name="Listener"
		config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config"
		path="/sumOfDigits"/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message">
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	number: payload.num
}]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
		<dotnet:execute doc:name="Execute" config-ref="Microsoft_DotNet"
		type="DemoDotNet.NumberLibrary, DemoDotNet, Version=1.0.0.0,
		Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=PUBLIC_KEY_TOKEN"
		method="DemoDotNet.NumberLibrary, DemoDotNet, Version=1.0.0.0,
		Culture=neutral,
		PublicKeyToken=PUBLIC_KEY_TOKEN | SumOfDigits(System.Int32 number) -&gt; System.Int32"/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message">
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
payload]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
	</flow>

</mule>
----

== See Also
* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
