db/1.10/modules/ROOT/pages/database-connector-troubleshooting.adoc, before:

= Troubleshoot Database Connector - Mule 4

To troubleshoot Anypoint Connector for Database (Database Connector), become familiar with the information about enabling verbose logging, troubleshooting pooling profile connections, troubleshooting Snowflake JDBC driver, and interpreting commonly thrown messages.

Database Connector follows the standards and guidelines detailed by the JDBC library (working with Java SE JDK 1.8).

== Enable Verbose Logging

To get a better understanding of why an application's interaction with the database is failing, temporarily enable verbose logging for Database Connector. +
Choose one of two options to enable verbose logging: manually change the `log4j2.xml` file or via Anypoint Runtime Manager if you are using CloudHub APIs. +
Remember to always disable the enhanced verbosity after troubleshooting because it affects your Mule application performance.

To enable verbose logging in the configuration file:

. Access Anypoint Studio and navigate to the *Package Explorer* view.
. Open your application's project name.
. Open the `src/main/resources` path folder.
. Open the `log4j2.xml` file inside the folder.
. Add an `<AsyncLogger>` tag inside the `<Loggers>` tag:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
			<Loggers>
				...
				<AsyncLogger name="org.mule.extension.db" level="DEBUG"/>
				<AsyncLogger name="org.mule.db.commons" level="DEBUG"/>
				...
			</Loggers>
----
[start=6]
. Save your application changes.
. Click the project name in *Package Explorer* and then click *Run* > *Run As* > *Mule Application*.

To enable verbose logging in Anypoint Runtime Manager:

. Access Anypoint Runtime Manager.
. Navigate to the API configuration.
. In the *Logging* subtab, add the `org.mule.extension.db` and `org.mule.db.commons` packages at DEBUG level.
. Apply the changes.

== Troubleshoot Pooling Profiles Connections Making the Flow Hang
Using a pooling profile that provides fewer connections than the flow requires can make the entire flow hang.

To resolve this issue:

One solution is to increase the size of the pool. When that's not possible, use Anypoint Connector for Virtual Machine (VM Connector) to shorten the life of the connection to match the life of a VM message. This way, every call to the *Stored procedure* operation is executed, its result is consumed, and the connection associated with the operation is closed and returned to the pool.

The following example shows how to use pooling profiles with the *Stored procedure* operation and VM Connector. In this example, When the `foreach` element reaches the eleventh iteration, the *Stored procedure* operation doesn't hang, because the pool is able to provide a connection:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
	<db:config name="Database_Config">
		<db:generic-connection url="someUrl" user="someUser" password="somePassword" driverClassName="someDriver">
			<db:pooling-profile maxPoolSize="10">
			</db:pooling-profile>
		</db:generic-connection>
	</db:config>

	<vm:config name="VM_Config">
		<vm:queues >
			<vm:queue queueName="testQueue" />
		</vm:queues>
	</vm:config>

	<flow name="processingFlow">
		<foreach collection="#[1 to 11]">
			<logger level="INFO" message="#['Starting Iteration ' ++ payload as String]" />
			<vm:publish config-ref="VM_Config" queueName="testQueue"/>
			<logger level="INFO" message="#['Finishing Iteration ' ++ payload as String]"/>
		</foreach>
	</flow>

	<flow name="coolFlow">
		<vm:listener config-ref="VM_Config" queueName="testQueue" numberOfConsumers="1"/>
		<db:stored-procedure config-ref="Database_Config">
				<db:sql><![CDATA[{call testProc2()}]]></db:sql>
			</db:stored-procedure>
		<logger level="INFO" message="#[output application/json --- payload.resultSet1]" />
	</flow>
----

== Troubleshoot Select and Stored Procedure operations when an exception is warned instead of thrown
When DB Connector operations' Select and Stored Procedure execute correctly but results are not present, an error is warned by Mule.

* For Select operation, when a subquery returns more than one value and that result is used for filtering or as an expression then an error is warned stating this situation and why it happened. The warning is produced as soon as the operation's result is being paginated and not when it's executed.

SQL Statement
[source,xml,linenums]
----
		<db:select doc:name="Select" config-ref="Database_Config">
			<db:sql ><![CDATA[
						SELECT * 
						FROM SomeTable 
						WHERE SomeColumn = (SELECT DISTINCT SomeColumn2 from SomeTable2)
					 ]]>
			</db:sql>
		</db:select>
----

Mule's message
[source,xml,linenums]
----
	WARN  2021-06-01 10:04:33,323 [[MuleRuntime].io.10: [some-mule-app].some-mule-app.BLOCKING @...] [event: ...] org.mule.extension.db.internal.result.resultset.ResultSetIterator: Unable to determine if there are more records
	com.microsoft.sqlserver.jdbc.SQLServerException: Subquery returned more than 1 value. This is not permitted when the subquery follows =, !=, <, <= , >, >= or when the subquery is used as an expression.
----

* For Stored Procedure operation, when a stored procedure contains multiple statements and one or more of them fail an error is warned stating this situation. The warning is produced as soon as the operation's result is being consumed and not when it's executed.

SQL Stored Procedure
[source,xml,linenums]
----
CREATE PROCEDURE dbo.SomeProcedure
AS
BEGIN
	BEGIN TRY
	select 1/0;
	END TRY
	BEGIN CATCH
	THROW 50000, 'Divide by zero error encountered.', 255; 
	END CATCH
END
----

Mule's message
[source,xml,linenums]
----
	WARN  2021-06-02 09:38:14,624 [[MuleRuntime].io.10: [some-mule-app].some-mule-app.BLOCKING @...] [event: ...] org.mule.extension.db.internal.result.statement.StatementResultIterator: Unable to determine if there are more statement results
	com.microsoft.sqlserver.jdbc.SQLServerException: 'The record does not exist.'
----

=== Cause
Executing an invalid SQL statement or expecting that an error within a set of statements will collapse the whole procedure when in fact what JDBC returns are a series of ResultSets, UpdateCounts, and Exceptions.

=== Why an Exception is not thrown so the Flow can catch it?
This scenario has its root cause in the behavior of the Driver. Some drivers comply strictly with JDBC and throw the exception properly (at execution time), but for Drivers that do not, adding this behavior into the connector code would break backward compatibility for Mule applications that do not expect an exception under this scenario. Because of this is that we opted to log a warning message informing the user of this situation.

== Troubleshoot Snowflake JDBC Driver That Throws an Exception for a Stored Procedure

Some drivers have their own specifications when calling stored procedures. Running the application when you set the callable statement with curly brackets (`{` and `}`), for example, `{call doubleMyInt(:myInt)}`, causes the Snowflake JDBC driver to throw the following exception:

`net.snowflake.client.jdbc.SnowflakeSQLException: Unsupported feature 'call'`


To resolve this issue:

For Snowflake JDBC driver, set the callable statement without the curly brackets `{` and `}`, for example:

`call doubleMyInt(:myInt)`


== Understand Common Throws

Here is a list of common throws messages and how to interpret them.

* DB:BAD_SQL_SYNTAX

 The provided SQL query contains invalid syntax.

* DB:CANNOT_LOAD_DRIVER

 Database Connector cannot load the JDBC driver.

* DB:CANNOT_REACH

 Database Connector cannot establish a connection with the RDBMS.

* DB:CONNECTIVITY

 Any of several possible connectivity issues, including poorly configured connections, lack of a database response while waiting for results or fetching rows, loss of database connection, and so on.

* DB:INVALID_DATABASE

 The connection to the RDBMS is established but the database doesn't exist.

* DB:INVALID_CREDENTIALS

 The database rejects the provided credentials.

* DB:QUERY_EXECUTION

 The query execution failed.

* DB:RETRY_EXHAUSTED

 All reconnection attempts failed.


== See Also

https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

Updated wording for Select and Store procedure operations

db/1.10/modules/ROOT/pages/database-connector-troubleshooting.adoc, after:

= Troubleshoot Database Connector - Mule 4

To troubleshoot Anypoint Connector for Database (Database Connector), become familiar with the information about enabling verbose logging, troubleshooting pooling profile connections, troubleshooting Snowflake JDBC driver, and interpreting commonly thrown messages.

Database Connector follows the standards and guidelines detailed by the JDBC library (working with Java SE JDK 1.8).

== Enable Verbose Logging

To get a better understanding of why an application's interaction with the database is failing, temporarily enable verbose logging for Database Connector. +
Choose one of two options to enable verbose logging: manually change the `log4j2.xml` file or via Anypoint Runtime Manager if you are using CloudHub APIs. +
Remember to always disable the enhanced verbosity after troubleshooting because it affects your Mule application performance.

To enable verbose logging in the configuration file:

. Access Anypoint Studio and navigate to the *Package Explorer* view.
. Open your application's project name.
. Open the `src/main/resources` path folder.
. Open the `log4j2.xml` file inside the folder.
. Add an `<AsyncLogger>` tag inside the `<Loggers>` tag:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
			<Loggers>
				...
				<AsyncLogger name="org.mule.extension.db" level="DEBUG"/>
				<AsyncLogger name="org.mule.db.commons" level="DEBUG"/>
				...
			</Loggers>
----
[start=6]
. Save your application changes.
. Click the project name in *Package Explorer* and then click *Run* > *Run As* > *Mule Application*.

To enable verbose logging in Anypoint Runtime Manager:

. Access Anypoint Runtime Manager.
. Navigate to the API configuration.
. In the *Logging* subtab, add the `org.mule.extension.db` and `org.mule.db.commons` packages at DEBUG level.
. Apply the changes.

== Troubleshoot Pooling Profiles Connections Making the Flow Hang
Using a pooling profile that provides fewer connections than the flow requires can make the entire flow hang.

To resolve this issue:

One solution is to increase the size of the pool. When that's not possible, use Anypoint Connector for Virtual Machine (VM Connector) to shorten the life of the connection to match the life of a VM message. This way, every call to the *Stored procedure* operation is executed, its result is consumed, and the connection associated with the operation is closed and returned to the pool.

The following example shows how to use pooling profiles with the *Stored procedure* operation and VM Connector. In this example, When the `foreach` element reaches the eleventh iteration, the *Stored procedure* operation doesn't hang, because the pool is able to provide a connection:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
	<db:config name="Database_Config">
		<db:generic-connection url="someUrl" user="someUser" password="somePassword" driverClassName="someDriver">
			<db:pooling-profile maxPoolSize="10">
			</db:pooling-profile>
		</db:generic-connection>
	</db:config>

	<vm:config name="VM_Config">
		<vm:queues >
			<vm:queue queueName="testQueue" />
		</vm:queues>
	</vm:config>

	<flow name="processingFlow">
		<foreach collection="#[1 to 11]">
			<logger level="INFO" message="#['Starting Iteration ' ++ payload as String]" />
			<vm:publish config-ref="VM_Config" queueName="testQueue"/>
			<logger level="INFO" message="#['Finishing Iteration ' ++ payload as String]"/>
		</foreach>
	</flow>

	<flow name="coolFlow">
		<vm:listener config-ref="VM_Config" queueName="testQueue" numberOfConsumers="1"/>
		<db:stored-procedure config-ref="Database_Config">
				<db:sql><![CDATA[{call testProc2()}]]></db:sql>
			</db:stored-procedure>
		<logger level="INFO" message="#[output application/json --- payload.resultSet1]" />
	</flow>
----

== Understand Select and Stored Procedure Operations Warning Exceptions

When the Database Connector *Select* and *Stored procedure* operations execute correctly but results are not present, Mule runtime engine (Mule) returns a `WARN` exception message instead of throwing the exception.

This occurs when executing an invalid SQL statement or expecting that an error within a set of statements will collapse the procedure when in fact what JDBC returns are a series of `ResultSets`, `UpdateCounts`, and `Exceptions`.

Mule does not throw an exception for the flow to catch it because the root cause is in the driver's behavior. Some drivers comply strictly with JDBC and throw the exception properly, at execution time, but other drivers do not. Therefore, adding into the connector code the behavior of throwing an exception, would break backward compatibility for Mule apps that do not expect an exception. 

For the *Select* operation, Mule logs a `WARN` exception when a subquery returns more than one value and that result is used for filtering or as an expression. Mule returns the warning as soon as the operation's result is paginated and not when it's executed.

For example, for the following SQL statement:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
		<db:select doc:name="Select" config-ref="Database_Config">
			<db:sql ><![CDATA[
						SELECT *
						FROM SomeTable
						WHERE SomeColumn = (SELECT DISTINCT SomeColumn2 from SomeTable2)
					 ]]>
			</db:sql>
		</db:select>
----

Mule logs the following `WARN` exception:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
	WARN  2021-06-01 10:04:33,323 [[MuleRuntime].io.10: [some-mule-app].some-mule-app.BLOCKING @...] [event: ...] org.mule.extension.db.internal.result.resultset.ResultSetIterator: Unable to determine if there are more records
	com.microsoft.sqlserver.jdbc.SQLServerException: Subquery returned more than 1 value. This is not permitted when the subquery follows =, !=, <, <= , >, >= or when the subquery is used as an expression.
----

For the *Store procedure* operation, Mule logs a `WARN` exception when stored procedure contains multiple statements and one or more of them fail. Mule returns the warning as soon as the operation's result is consumed and not when it's executed. For example, for the following SQL Stored Procedure:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
CREATE PROCEDURE dbo.SomeProcedure
AS
BEGIN
	BEGIN TRY
	select 1/0;
	END TRY
	BEGIN CATCH
	THROW 50000, 'Divide by zero error encountered.', 255;
	END CATCH
END
----

Mule logs the following `WARN` exception:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
	WARN  2021-06-02 09:38:14,624 [[MuleRuntime].io.10: [some-mule-app].some-mule-app.BLOCKING @...] [event: ...] org.mule.extension.db.internal.result.statement.StatementResultIterator: Unable to determine if there are more statement results
	com.microsoft.sqlserver.jdbc.SQLServerException: 'The record does not exist.'
----


== Troubleshoot Snowflake JDBC Driver That Throws an Exception for a Stored Procedure

Some drivers have their own specifications when calling stored procedures. Running the application when you set the callable statement with curly brackets (`{` and `}`), for example, `{call doubleMyInt(:myInt)}`, causes the Snowflake JDBC driver to throw the following exception:

`net.snowflake.client.jdbc.SnowflakeSQLException: Unsupported feature 'call'`


To resolve this issue:

For Snowflake JDBC driver, set the callable statement without the curly brackets `{` and `}`, for example:

`call doubleMyInt(:myInt)`


== Understand Common Throws

Here is a list of common throws messages and how to interpret them.

* DB:BAD_SQL_SYNTAX

 The provided SQL query contains invalid syntax.

* DB:CANNOT_LOAD_DRIVER

 Database Connector cannot load the JDBC driver.

* DB:CANNOT_REACH

 Database Connector cannot establish a connection with the RDBMS.

* DB:CONNECTIVITY

 Any of several possible connectivity issues, including poorly configured connections, lack of a database response while waiting for results or fetching rows, loss of database connection, and so on.

* DB:INVALID_DATABASE

 The connection to the RDBMS is established but the database doesn't exist.

* DB:INVALID_CREDENTIALS

 The database rejects the provided credentials.

* DB:QUERY_EXECUTION

 The query execution failed.

* DB:RETRY_EXHAUSTED

 All reconnection attempts failed.


== See Also

https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
