microsoft-dynamics-365/2.4/modules/ROOT/pages/microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-studio.adoc, before:

= Use Anypoint Studio to Configure Microsoft Dynamics 365 Connector 2.4  - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::microsoft/microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-studio.adoc
:page-aliases: connectors::microsoft/microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-design-center.adoc

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-input-source,Configure a source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.

When you run the connector, you can view the app log to check for problems, as described in <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.


If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the xref:microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-reference.adoc[Microsoft Dynamics Reference].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector: 

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.


[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add Microsoft Dynamics 365 Connector to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and to add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In the *Add Dependencies to Project* window, type `dynamics 365` in the search field.
. Click *Microsoft Dynamics 365* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.


[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these sources to use with Microsoft Dynamics 365 Connector:

* *On new object* +
Start your app when an object is created.
* *On modified object* +
Start your app when an object is modified.
* *HTTP > Listener* +
Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* *Scheduler* +
Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure an *On New Object* source, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Dynamics 365 > On new object*.
+
image::dynamics-365-select-on-new-object.png[On New Object source selected in Mule Palette view]
+
. Drag *On new object* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *On new object* *General* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Entity type* field, for example `account`. +
The entity type string describes business data that is defined in the Microsoft Dynamics 365 instance. 
+
image::dynamics-365-on-new-object-general.png[General configuration fields for On New Object source]
+
. Click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the *On new object* source in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify the connection information for the connector.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify the TLS information for the connector.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Connector, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Dynamics 365* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas and to the right of the input source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials that the connector requires to access the target Microsoft Dynamics 365 system. Microsoft Dynamics 365 Connector supports OAuth connection and OAuth username and password authentication types. 

To configure the global element for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the operation in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. On the *General* tab, from *Connection*, select the authentication type for the connection: 
* <<oauth-connection,Connection>>
* <<oauth-username-password>>OAuth Username and Password
+
You can reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders (recommended), or you can enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties. For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[oauth-connection]]
=== Configure OAuth 2.0 Connection

OAuth 2.0 authentication is implemented and handled by Mule runtime engine rather than by the connector itself. 

To use the connector in a flow, follow these steps:

. Enter the following required information on the *General* tab of the *Global Element Properties* screen to configure *Connection* authentication:
* *Resource* +
Resource URL for accessing the Microsoft Dynamics 365 instance
* *Consumer Key* +
OAuth consumer key registered with the service provider
* *Consumer Secret* +
OAuth consumer secret registered with the service provider
* *Listener Config* +
A reference to the listener that catches the access token callback endpoint
* *Callback Path* +
The path of the access token callback endpoint
* *Authorize Path* +
The path of the local HTTP endpoint that triggers the OAuth dance 
+
The following image shows an example OAuth Connection configuration using property placeholder values:
+
image::dynamics-oauth-connection.png[Global element configuration for OAuth Connection]
+
For the *Authorization url* and *Access token url*, replace the variables `<authorization-url>` and `<access-token>` with your own authorization and access URL tokens.
. You must first call the `/authorize` path by pasting it in to a web page.
. A web page is returned, where you must perform the authorization steps by providing your credentials and so on. 
. After you complete the proper authorization steps, the web page then redirects to whatever you configured inside the *Callback Path* field, for example `/oauth2callback`. +
This redirect contains additional properties, including an access code for the connector to use.


[[oauth-username-password]]
=== Configure OAuth 2.0 Username and Password

Enter the following information on the *General* tab of the *Global Element Properties* screen to configure *OAuth Username and Password* authentication to enable access to your Microsoft Dynamics 365 server:

* *Username* +
User name used to initialize the session.
* *Password* +
Password used to authenticate against the proxy.
* *Resource* +
Application ID URI of the web API's secured resource.
* *Client ID* +
Application ID assigned to your app when you registered it with Azure AD. You can find this in the Azure Portal:
. Go to the Azure portal.
. Click *Active Directory*, and select the directory.
. Click the application, and then click *Configure*.
* *Client Secret* +
App secret that you created in the app registration portal for your app. It should not be used in a native app, because client secrets cannot be reliably stored on devices. It is required for web apps and web APIs, which have the ability to store the client secret securely on the server side.
* *Token Request Endpoint* +
URL of the OAuth token request server.

The following image shows an example OAuth Username and Password configuration using property placeholder values:

image::dynamics-365-oauth-username-password.png[Global element configuration for OAuth username and password]

== Run a Flow

. In Package Explorer, right-click your project's name and click *Run As* > *Mule Application*.
. Check the console to see when the application starts.
You should see messages such as these if no errors occur:

[source,text,linenums]
----
************************************************************
INFO  2019-10-14 22:12:42,003 [main] org.mule.module.launcher.DeploymentDirectoryWatcher:
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
+ Mule is up and kicking (every 5000ms)                    +
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
INFO  2019-10-14 22:12:42,006 [main] org.mule.module.launcher.StartupSummaryDeploymentListener:
**********************************************************
*  - - + DOMAIN + - -               * - - + STATUS + - - *
**********************************************************
* default                           * DEPLOYED           *
**********************************************************

************************************************************************
* - - + APPLICATION + - -   * - - + DOMAIN + - -  * - - + STATUS + - - *
************************************************************************
* myapp                     * default             * DEPLOYED           *
************************************************************************
----

== Next Step

After configuring the Microsoft Dynamics 365 Connector for use in Studio, see the
xref:microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-examples.adoc[Examples]
topic for more configuration information.

== See Also

* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

Added missing View app log section

microsoft-dynamics-365/2.4/modules/ROOT/pages/microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-studio.adoc, after:

= Use Anypoint Studio to Configure Microsoft Dynamics 365 Connector 2.4  - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::microsoft/microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-studio.adoc
:page-aliases: connectors::microsoft/microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-design-center.adoc

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-input-source,Configure a source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.

When you run the connector, you can view the app log to check for problems, as described in <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.


If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the xref:microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-reference.adoc[Microsoft Dynamics Reference].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector: 

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.


[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add Microsoft Dynamics 365 Connector to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and to add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In the *Add Dependencies to Project* window, type `dynamics 365` in the search field.
. Click *Microsoft Dynamics 365* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.


[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these sources to use with Microsoft Dynamics 365 Connector:

* *On new object* +
Start your app when an object is created.
* *On modified object* +
Start your app when an object is modified.
* *HTTP > Listener* +
Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* *Scheduler* +
Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure an *On New Object* source, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Dynamics 365 > On new object*.
+
image::dynamics-365-select-on-new-object.png[On New Object source selected in Mule Palette view]
+
. Drag *On new object* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *On new object* *General* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Entity type* field, for example `account`. +
The entity type string describes business data that is defined in the Microsoft Dynamics 365 instance. 
+
image::dynamics-365-on-new-object-general.png[General configuration fields for On New Object source]
+
. Click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the *On new object* source in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify the connection information for the connector.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify the TLS information for the connector.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Connector, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Dynamics 365* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas and to the right of the input source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials that the connector requires to access the target Microsoft Dynamics 365 system. Microsoft Dynamics 365 Connector supports OAuth connection and OAuth username and password authentication types. 

To configure the global element for Microsoft Dynamics 365 Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the operation in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. On the *General* tab, from *Connection*, select the authentication type for the connection: 
* <<oauth-connection,Connection>>
* <<oauth-username-password>>OAuth Username and Password
+
You can reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders (recommended), or you can enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties. For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[oauth-connection]]
=== Configure OAuth 2.0 Connection

OAuth 2.0 authentication is implemented and handled by Mule runtime engine rather than by the connector itself. 

To use the connector in a flow, follow these steps:

. Enter the following required information on the *General* tab of the *Global Element Properties* screen to configure *Connection* authentication:
* *Resource* +
Resource URL for accessing the Microsoft Dynamics 365 instance
* *Consumer Key* +
OAuth consumer key registered with the service provider
* *Consumer Secret* +
OAuth consumer secret registered with the service provider
* *Listener Config* +
A reference to the listener that catches the access token callback endpoint
* *Callback Path* +
The path of the access token callback endpoint
* *Authorize Path* +
The path of the local HTTP endpoint that triggers the OAuth dance 
+
The following image shows an example OAuth Connection configuration using property placeholder values:
+
image::dynamics-oauth-connection.png[Global element configuration for OAuth Connection]
+
For the *Authorization url* and *Access token url*, replace the variables `<authorization-url>` and `<access-token>` with your own authorization and access URL tokens.
. You must first call the `/authorize` path by pasting it in to a web page.
. A web page is returned, where you must perform the authorization steps by providing your credentials and so on. 
. After you complete the proper authorization steps, the web page then redirects to whatever you configured inside the *Callback Path* field, for example `/oauth2callback`. +
This redirect contains additional properties, including an access code for the connector to use.


[[oauth-username-password]]
=== Configure OAuth 2.0 Username and Password

Enter the following information on the *General* tab of the *Global Element Properties* screen to configure *OAuth Username and Password* authentication to enable access to your Microsoft Dynamics 365 server:

* *Username* +
User name used to initialize the session.
* *Password* +
Password used to authenticate against the proxy.
* *Resource* +
Application ID URI of the web API's secured resource.
* *Client ID* +
Application ID assigned to your app when you registered it with Azure AD. You can find this in the Azure Portal:
. Go to the Azure portal.
. Click *Active Directory*, and select the directory.
. Click the application, and then click *Configure*.
* *Client Secret* +
App secret that you created in the app registration portal for your app. It should not be used in a native app, because client secrets cannot be reliably stored on devices. It is required for web apps and web APIs, which have the ability to store the client secret securely on the server side.
* *Token Request Endpoint* +
URL of the OAuth token request server.

The following image shows an example OAuth Username and Password configuration using property placeholder values:

image::dynamics-365-oauth-username-password.png[Global element configuration for OAuth username and password]

== Run a Flow

. In Package Explorer, right-click your project's name and click *Run As* > *Mule Application*.
. Check the console to see when the application starts.
You should see messages such as these if no errors occur:

[source,text,linenums]
----
************************************************************
INFO  2019-10-14 22:12:42,003 [main] org.mule.module.launcher.DeploymentDirectoryWatcher:
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
+ Mule is up and kicking (every 5000ms)                    +
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
INFO  2019-10-14 22:12:42,006 [main] org.mule.module.launcher.StartupSummaryDeploymentListener:
**********************************************************
*  - - + DOMAIN + - -               * - - + STATUS + - - *
**********************************************************
* default                           * DEPLOYED           *
**********************************************************

************************************************************************
* - - + APPLICATION + - -   * - - + DOMAIN + - -  * - - + STATUS + - - *
************************************************************************
* myapp                     * default             * DEPLOYED           *
************************************************************************
----

[[view-app-log]]

== View the App Log

To check for problems, you can view the app log as follows:

* If you’re running the app from Anypoint Platform, the output is visible in the Anypoint Studio console window.
* If you’re running the app using Mule from the command line, the app log is visible in your OS console.

Unless the log file path is customized in the app’s log file (`log4j2.xml`), you can also view the app log in the default location `MULE_HOME/logs/<app-name>.log`.

== Next Step

After you configure a global element and connection information, see the
xref:microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-examples.adoc[Examples]
topic for more configuration information.

== See Also

* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
