ftp/1.5/modules/ROOT/pages/ftp-read.adoc, before:

= Read a File Using the FTP Connector
:page-aliases: connectors::ftp/ftp-read.adoc

In Mule 4, the FTP connector can read a file at any point in the flow, unlike in Mule 3 where transport could only read files as a result of inbound endpoint polling.

Here is the syntax for reading a file:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<ftp:read path="#[path]"
  lock="true|false"
  outputEncoding="UTF-8"
  outputMimeType="application/xml" />
----

The operation above reads the file in the given path. It returns a Mule message (`MuleMessage`) with the following attributes:

* The file's content as the payload.
* The file's metadata in the message attributes.
* If the file does not exist, you receive a `FTP:ILLEGAL_PATH` error. Note that the operation does not read directories.

// == INCLUDE SHARED READ OP CONTENT FOR FILE, FTP, AND SFTP CONNECTORS
include::partial$common-read-operation.adoc[]

// == File Locking SHARED BY FTP AND SFTP only
include::partial$common-file-lock.adoc[]

The Read operation makes use of the repeatable streams functionality introduced in Mule 4. The operation returns a list of messages, where each message represents a file in the list and holds a stream to the file. A stream is repeatable by default.

For more information on this topic, see xref:mule-runtime::streaming-about.adoc[Streaming in Mule 4].

Commit message:

FTP Read operation default behavior clarification

ftp/1.5/modules/ROOT/pages/ftp-read.adoc, after:

= Read a File Using the FTP Connector
:page-aliases: connectors::ftp/ftp-read.adoc

In Mule 4, the FTP connector can read a file at any point in the flow, unlike in Mule 3 where transport could only read files as a result of inbound endpoint polling.

When the file is read from the FTP source folder, the default behavior of the operation in Mule 4 is that it remains in the same folder until it is manually deleted.

Here is the syntax for reading a file:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<ftp:read path="#[path]"
  lock="true|false"
  outputEncoding="UTF-8"
  outputMimeType="application/xml" />
----

The operation above reads the file in the given path. It returns a Mule message (`MuleMessage`) with the following attributes:

* The file's content as the payload.
* The file's metadata in the message attributes.
* If the file does not exist, you receive a `FTP:ILLEGAL_PATH` error. Note that the operation does not read directories.

// == INCLUDE SHARED READ OP CONTENT FOR FILE, FTP, AND SFTP CONNECTORS
include::partial$common-read-operation.adoc[]

// == File Locking SHARED BY FTP AND SFTP only
include::partial$common-file-lock.adoc[]

The Read operation makes use of the repeatable streams functionality introduced in Mule 4. The operation returns a list of messages, where each message represents a file in the list and holds a stream to the file. A stream is repeatable by default.

For more information on this topic, see xref:mule-runtime::streaming-about.adoc[Streaming in Mule 4].
