amazon-redshift/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/amazon-redshift-connector-studio.adoc, before:

= Use Anypoint Studio to Configure Amazon Redshift Connector 1.0 - Mule 4

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<add-source,Add a source>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.
. <<view-app-log,View the app log>>.

When you run the connector, you can view the app log to check for problems, as described in <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.

If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add Anypoint Connector for Amazon Redshift (Amazon Redshift Connector) to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type `redshift` in the search field.
. Click *Amazon Redshift Connector* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these sources to use with Amazon Redshift Connector:

* *On Table Row*
+
Select rows from a database table at a regular interval and generates one message per row that is obtained.
+
* *HTTP > Listener* 
+
Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
+
* *Scheduler* 
+
Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

To configure the *On Table Row* source, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Redshift*.
. Drag *On Table Row* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *On Table Row* properties window, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Select the created connector configuration or click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector <configuration>* field to configure a new global element.
+
Follow the steps in <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.
. On the *General* tab, complete the following fields:

[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field a|Description
|Name | Name used to reference this connector instance
|Table | Name of the table to select from
|===


[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you are specifying an action for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for <connector name>, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Amazon Redshift* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas to the right of the source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, it's best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use.
Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials that the connector requires to access the target Amazon Redshift cluster.

Amazon Redshift Connector supports:

* Basic authentication, which uses *user* and *password* field values to connect to the database
* IAM authentication, which uses *access key* and *secret key* field values to retrieve temporary password for the specified user in order to connect to the database
* Optionally, you can specify the *ARN* field value in the *Role* field if the connector should first assume an IAM role for a set of temporary security IAM credentials and use those to retrieve the password.

When you configure a global element, you can reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders (recommended), or you can enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties.
For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them,
see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].

To configure a global element, follow these steps:

. Select the name of the connector in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. On the *General* tab, configure the following fields (basic authentication configuration).
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field |Description
|Name | Name used to reference the connector instance
|Cluster ID | Cluster identifier
|Region | Region Endpoint (optional)
|Port | Database port (optional)
|Database | Database name
|User | Database username
|Password | Password to use for authentication against the database
|===
+
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally add JDBC connection properties and reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.


[[view-app-log]]
== View the App Log

To check for problems, you can view the app log as follows:

* If you're running the app from Anypoint Platform, the app log output is visible in the Anypoint Studio console window.
* If you're running the app using Mule from the command line, the app log output is visible in your OS console.

Unless the log file path is customized in the app's log file (`log4j2.xml`), you can also view the app log in the default location `MULE_HOME/logs/<app-name>.log`. You can configure the location of the log path in the app log file `log4j2.xml`.

== Next Step

After you configure a global element and connection information, configure the other fields for the connector.

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:amazon-redshift-connector-reference.adoc[Reference]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

- update redshift-configuration.png image - fix runtime version in antora.yml - add missing information regarding configuration of JDBC driver to docs

amazon-redshift/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/amazon-redshift-connector-studio.adoc, after:

= Use Anypoint Studio to Configure Amazon Redshift Connector 1.0 - Mule 4

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<add-source,Add a source>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.
. <<view-app-log,View the app log>>.

When you run the connector, you can view the app log to check for problems, as described in <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.

If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add Anypoint Connector for Amazon Redshift (Amazon Redshift Connector) to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type `redshift` in the search field.
. Click *Amazon Redshift Connector* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these sources to use with Amazon Redshift Connector:

* *On Table Row*
+
Select rows from a database table at a regular interval and generates one message per row that is obtained.
+
* *HTTP > Listener* 
+
Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
+
* *Scheduler* 
+
Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

To configure the *On Table Row* source, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Redshift*.
. Drag *On Table Row* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *On Table Row* properties window, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Select the created connector configuration or click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector <configuration>* field to configure a new global element.
+
Follow the steps in <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.
. On the *General* tab, complete the following fields:

[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field a|Description
|Name | Name used to reference this connector instance
|Table | Name of the table to select from
|===


[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you are specifying an action for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for <connector name>, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Amazon Redshift* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas to the right of the source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, it's best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use.
Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials that the connector requires to access the target Amazon Redshift cluster.

Amazon Redshift Connector supports:

* Basic authentication, which uses *user* and *password* field values to connect to the database
* IAM authentication, which uses *access key* and *secret key* field values to retrieve temporary password for the specified user in order to connect to the database
* Optionally, you can specify the *ARN* field value in the *Role* field if the connector should first assume an IAM role for a set of temporary security IAM credentials and use those to retrieve the password.

When you configure a global element, you can reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders (recommended), or you can enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties.
For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them,
see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].

To configure a global element, follow these steps:

. Select the name of the connector in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. On the *General* tab, configure the following fields (basic authentication configuration).
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field |Description
|Name | Name used to reference the connector instance
|Cluster ID | Cluster identifier
|Region | Region Endpoint (optional)
|Port | Database port (optional)
|Database | Database name
|User | Database username
|Password | Password to use for authentication against the database
|===
+
. Scroll down and configure JDBC driver in the section Required libraries.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally add JDBC connection properties and reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.


[[view-app-log]]
== View the App Log

To check for problems, you can view the app log as follows:

* If you're running the app from Anypoint Platform, the app log output is visible in the Anypoint Studio console window.
* If you're running the app using Mule from the command line, the app log output is visible in your OS console.

Unless the log file path is customized in the app's log file (`log4j2.xml`), you can also view the app log in the default location `MULE_HOME/logs/<app-name>.log`. You can configure the location of the log path in the app log file `log4j2.xml`.

== Next Step

After you configure a global element and connection information, configure the other fields for the connector.

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:amazon-redshift-connector-reference.adoc[Reference]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
