amazon-redshift/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/amazon-redshift-connector-example.adoc, before:

= Amazon Redshift Connector 1.0 Example - Mule 4

This example shows you how to use Anypoint Connector for Amazon Redshift (Amazon Redshift Connector) to load data from Amazon S3 to Amazon Redshift.

== Prerequisites

* Java 8 or 11
* Anypoint Studio 7.x
* Mule Runtime 4.3.0 and later
* DataWeave
* Access to Amazon S3 and Amazon Redshift
* Amazon S3 and Amazon Redshift Credentials

== Create the Mule Project

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter `redshift-demo` as the name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.
. Open the `redshift-demo.xml` file in `src/main/mule` folder.
. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type `redshift` in the search field.
. Click *Amazon Redshift Connector* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*. 
. Repeat the previous steps to also add the Amazon S3 Connector (search for `amazon s3`) and File Connector (search for `file`) to the Mule project.

== XML Code for This Example

Overwrite the contents of `redshift-demo.xml` file with the following XML snippet:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<mule xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core"
	  xmlns:file="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/file"
	  xmlns:s3="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/s3"
	  xmlns:redshift="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/redshift"
	  xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
	  xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
	  xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
	  xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	  xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/redshift http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/redshift/current/mule-redshift.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/s3 http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/s3/current/mule-s3.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/file http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/file/current/mule-file.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd">

	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config" doc:name="HTTP Listener config" basePath="/">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>

	<redshift:config name="Amazon_Redshift_Connector_Config" doc:name="Amazon Redshift Connector Config">
		<redshift:basic-connection
				clusterId="${redshift.cluster_id}"
				database="${redshift.database}"
				user="${redshift.user}"
				password="${redshift.password}"
				region="${redshift.region}"
				port="${redshift.port}"
		/>
	</redshift:config>

	<s3:config name="Amazon_S3_Configuration" doc:name="Amazon S3 Configuration">
		<s3:basic-connection accessKey="${s3.access_key}" secretKey="${s3.secret_key}" region="${s3.region}"/>
	</s3:config>

	<file:config name="File_Config" doc:name="File Config">
		<file:connection workingDir="${mule.home}/apps/${app.name}/" />
	</file:config>

	<configuration-properties doc:name="Configuration properties" file="mule-artifact.properties" />

	<flow name="Create-Redshift-Table-S3-Bucket-S3-Object-Flow">
		<http:listener doc:name="Listener" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/init"/>
		<set-variable value="username-bucket" doc:name="Bucket Name" variableName="bucket" />
		<redshift:execute-ddl doc:name="Execute DDL" config-ref="Amazon_Redshift_Connector_Config">
			<redshift:sql ><![CDATA[CREATE TABLE username (Username VARCHAR(50), Identifier INTEGER, First_Name VARCHAR(50), Last_Name VARCHAR(50));]]></redshift:sql>
		</redshift:execute-ddl>
		<s3:create-bucket doc:name="Create bucket" config-ref="Amazon_S3_Configuration" bucketName="#[vars.bucket]"/>
		<file:read doc:name="Read" config-ref="File_Config" path="username.csv"/>
		<s3:create-object doc:name="Create object" config-ref="Amazon_S3_Configuration" bucketName="#[vars.bucket]" key="username.csv" contentType="text/csv"/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message">
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	success: true,
	redshiftTable: "username",
	s3bucket: vars.bucket,
	s3object: "username.csv"
}]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
	</flow>

	<flow name="Execute-Copy-Command-Flow">
		<http:listener doc:name="Listener" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/execute"/>
		<set-variable value="#['s3://username-bucket/username.csv']" doc:name="Bucket Name" variableName="bucketNameEndpoint"/>
		<set-variable value="${copy.access_key}" doc:name="Access Key" variableName="access_key"/>
		<set-variable value="${copy.secret_key}" doc:name="Secret Key" variableName="secret_key"/>
		<redshift:execute-script doc:name="Execute script" config-ref="Amazon_Redshift_Connector_Config">
			<redshift:sql ><![CDATA[#["copy username from " ++ "'" ++ vars.bucketNameEndpoint ++ "'" ++ " access_key_id " ++ "'" ++ vars.access_key ++ "'" ++ " secret_access_key " ++ "'" ++ vars.secret_key ++ "'" ++ " delimiter ';' IGNOREHEADER 1 IGNOREBLANKLINES"]]]></redshift:sql>
		</redshift:execute-script>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message">
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	"success": true
}
]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
	</flow>

	<flow name="Delete-Redshift-Table-S3-Bucket-Flow">
		<http:listener doc:name="Listener" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/deleteAll"/>
		<set-variable value="username-bucket" doc:name="Set Variable" variableName="bucketDelete"/>
		<redshift:execute-ddl doc:name="Execute DDL" config-ref="Amazon_Redshift_Connector_Config">
			<redshift:sql ><![CDATA[DROP TABLE username;]]></redshift:sql>
		</redshift:execute-ddl>
		<s3:delete-bucket doc:name="Delete bucket" config-ref="Amazon_S3_Configuration" force="true" bucketName='#[vars.bucketDelete]'/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message">
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	"success": true
}]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
	</flow>

</mule>
----

== Configure the Credentials

. Create a file named `mule-artifact.properties` in the `src/main/resources/` folder. 
. Add the following properties in the `mule-artifact.properties` file and assign the correct values:
+
----
s3.access_key=
s3.secret_key=
s3.region=

redshift.cluster_id=
redshift.region=
redshift.port=
redshift.database=
redshift.user=
redshift.password=

copy.access_key=
copy.secret_key=
----

[NOTES]
---
* You must have Amazon S3 credentials to create and delete buckets and to create an object.
* Amazon Redshift credentials are required to establish a connection to the database.
* This example is using a `COPY` command to load a table in parallel from a data file on Amazon S3. 
+
To use the `COPY` command, you must authenticate using your IAM user credentials with the correct policies attached to it, therefore, it is best to use the Amazon S3 Read only policy for the `copy.access_key` and `copy.secret_key` properties. 
* Alternatively, it is possible to use an IAM Role instead of the Access and Secret key pair. 
+
To do this, you must ensure the role has the correct policies attached to it. It is best to use the Amazon S3 Read only policy for this purpose.
+
* To create an IAM role to allow your Redshift cluster to communicate with the Amazon S3 service on your behalf, follow the steps in this https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/authorizing-redshift-service.html[Amazon Redshift tutorial].
---

The following images show the Amazon S3 and Amazon Redshift configurations:

.Amazon S3 Configuration
image::s3-configuration.png[Amazon S3 configuration]

.Amazon Redshift Configuration
image::redshift-configuration.png[Amazon Redshift configuration]

[[prepare-data-file]]
=== Prepare the Data File

Prepare a data file to upload to Amazon S3. This data file will then be used as the data set in the `COPY` command for the Amazon Redshift table.

. Create a file named `username.csv` in the `src/main/resources/` folder in your Mule project.
. Populate the `username.csv` file with the following sample data:

[source,csv,linenums]
----
Username; Identifier;First name;Last name
booker12;9012;Rachel;Booker
grey07;2070;Laura;Grey
johnson81;4081;Craig;Johnson
jenkins46;9346;Mary;Jenkins
smith79;5079;Jamie;Smith
----

== Flows in This Example

The following screenshots show the Anypoint Studio app flows for this example:

* This flow creates the Amazon Redshift table, Amazon S3 bucket and object:
+
image::create-flow.png[Create the Redshift table Amazon S3 bucket and Amazon S3 object flow]
+
* This flow executes the `COPY` command, which leverages the Amazon Redshift massively parallel processing (MPP) architecture to load data in parallel from a file in an Amazon S3 bucket:
+
image::execute-flow.png[Execute the Copy command flow]
+
* This flow deletes the Amazon Redshift table and Amazon S3 bucket:
+
image:delete-flow.png[Delete the Amazon Redshift table and Amazon S3 bucket flow]

== Run the Example

. Right-click in the project's canvas and select *Run project redshift-demo*.
. Open `localhost:8081/init` in a web browser and wait until it returns a response containing `success:true` with the created table, bucket, and an object.
. Verify that the new Amazon S3 bucket `username-bucket` was created in your Amazon S3 instance.
. Verify that the new Redshift table `username` was created in your Amazon Redshift instance.
. Open `localhost:8081/execute` in a web browser and wait until it returns a response containing `success:true`.
. Verify that the `username` table contains data from the `username.csv` file you added to the Mule project in <<prepare-data-file,Prepare the Data File>>.
. Open `localhost:8081/delete` in a web browser and wait until it returns a response containing `success:true`.
. Verify that both the `username` Amazon Redshift table and `username-bucket` Amazon S3 bucket were deleted.

=== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

- update redshift-configuration.png image - fix runtime version in antora.yml - add missing information regarding configuration of JDBC driver to docs

amazon-redshift/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/amazon-redshift-connector-example.adoc, after:

= Amazon Redshift Connector 1.0 Example - Mule 4

This example shows you how to use Anypoint Connector for Amazon Redshift (Amazon Redshift Connector) to load data from Amazon S3 to Amazon Redshift.

== Prerequisites

* Java 8 or 11
* Anypoint Studio 7.x
* Mule Runtime 4.3.0 and later
* DataWeave
* Access to Amazon S3 and Amazon Redshift
* Amazon S3 and Amazon Redshift Credentials

== Create the Mule Project

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter `redshift-demo` as the name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.
. Open the `redshift-demo.xml` file in `src/main/mule` folder.
. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type `redshift` in the search field.
. Click *Amazon Redshift Connector* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*. 
. Repeat the previous steps to also add the Amazon S3 Connector (search for `amazon s3`) and File Connector (search for `file`) to the Mule project.

== XML Code for This Example

Overwrite the contents of `redshift-demo.xml` file with the following XML snippet:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<mule xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core"
	  xmlns:file="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/file"
	  xmlns:s3="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/s3"
	  xmlns:redshift="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/redshift"
	  xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
	  xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
	  xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
	  xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	  xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/redshift http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/redshift/current/mule-redshift.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/s3 http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/s3/current/mule-s3.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/file http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/file/current/mule-file.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd">

	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config" doc:name="HTTP Listener config" basePath="/">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>

	<redshift:config name="Amazon_Redshift_Connector_Config" doc:name="Amazon Redshift Connector Config">
		<redshift:basic-connection
				clusterId="${redshift.cluster_id}"
				database="${redshift.database}"
				user="${redshift.user}"
				password="${redshift.password}"
				region="${redshift.region}"
				port="${redshift.port}"
		/>
	</redshift:config>

	<s3:config name="Amazon_S3_Configuration" doc:name="Amazon S3 Configuration">
		<s3:basic-connection accessKey="${s3.access_key}" secretKey="${s3.secret_key}" region="${s3.region}"/>
	</s3:config>

	<file:config name="File_Config" doc:name="File Config">
		<file:connection workingDir="${mule.home}/apps/${app.name}/" />
	</file:config>

	<configuration-properties doc:name="Configuration properties" file="mule-artifact.properties" />

	<flow name="Create-Redshift-Table-S3-Bucket-S3-Object-Flow">
		<http:listener doc:name="Listener" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/init"/>
		<set-variable value="username-bucket" doc:name="Bucket Name" variableName="bucket" />
		<redshift:execute-ddl doc:name="Execute DDL" config-ref="Amazon_Redshift_Connector_Config">
			<redshift:sql ><![CDATA[CREATE TABLE username (Username VARCHAR(50), Identifier INTEGER, First_Name VARCHAR(50), Last_Name VARCHAR(50));]]></redshift:sql>
		</redshift:execute-ddl>
		<s3:create-bucket doc:name="Create bucket" config-ref="Amazon_S3_Configuration" bucketName="#[vars.bucket]"/>
		<file:read doc:name="Read" config-ref="File_Config" path="username.csv"/>
		<s3:create-object doc:name="Create object" config-ref="Amazon_S3_Configuration" bucketName="#[vars.bucket]" key="username.csv" contentType="text/csv"/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message">
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	success: true,
	redshiftTable: "username",
	s3bucket: vars.bucket,
	s3object: "username.csv"
}]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
	</flow>

	<flow name="Execute-Copy-Command-Flow">
		<http:listener doc:name="Listener" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/execute"/>
		<set-variable value="#['s3://username-bucket/username.csv']" doc:name="Bucket Name" variableName="bucketNameEndpoint"/>
		<set-variable value="${copy.access_key}" doc:name="Access Key" variableName="access_key"/>
		<set-variable value="${copy.secret_key}" doc:name="Secret Key" variableName="secret_key"/>
		<redshift:execute-script doc:name="Execute script" config-ref="Amazon_Redshift_Connector_Config">
			<redshift:sql ><![CDATA[#["copy username from " ++ "'" ++ vars.bucketNameEndpoint ++ "'" ++ " access_key_id " ++ "'" ++ vars.access_key ++ "'" ++ " secret_access_key " ++ "'" ++ vars.secret_key ++ "'" ++ " delimiter ';' IGNOREHEADER 1 IGNOREBLANKLINES"]]]></redshift:sql>
		</redshift:execute-script>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message">
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	"success": true
}
]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
	</flow>

	<flow name="Delete-Redshift-Table-S3-Bucket-Flow">
		<http:listener doc:name="Listener" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/deleteAll"/>
		<set-variable value="username-bucket" doc:name="Set Variable" variableName="bucketDelete"/>
		<redshift:execute-ddl doc:name="Execute DDL" config-ref="Amazon_Redshift_Connector_Config">
			<redshift:sql ><![CDATA[DROP TABLE username;]]></redshift:sql>
		</redshift:execute-ddl>
		<s3:delete-bucket doc:name="Delete bucket" config-ref="Amazon_S3_Configuration" force="true" bucketName='#[vars.bucketDelete]'/>
		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message">
			<ee:message >
				<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
	"success": true
}]]></ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
	</flow>

</mule>
----

== Configure the Credentials

. Create a file named `mule-artifact.properties` in the `src/main/resources/` folder. 
. Add the following properties in the `mule-artifact.properties` file and assign the correct values:
+
----
s3.access_key=
s3.secret_key=
s3.region=

redshift.cluster_id=
redshift.region=
redshift.port=
redshift.database=
redshift.user=
redshift.password=

copy.access_key=
copy.secret_key=
----
+
[NOTES]
---
* You must have Amazon S3 credentials to create and delete buckets and to create an object.
* Amazon Redshift credentials are required to establish a connection to the database.
* This example is using a `COPY` command to load a table in parallel from a data file on Amazon S3. 
+
To use the `COPY` command, you must authenticate using your IAM user credentials with the correct policies attached to it, therefore, it is best to use the Amazon S3 Read only policy for the `copy.access_key` and `copy.secret_key` properties. 
* Alternatively, it is possible to use an IAM Role instead of the Access and Secret key pair. 
+
To do this, you must ensure the role has the correct policies attached to it. It is best to use the Amazon S3 Read only policy for this purpose.
+
* To create an IAM role to allow your Redshift cluster to communicate with the Amazon S3 service on your behalf, follow the steps in this https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/authorizing-redshift-service.html[Amazon Redshift tutorial].
---
. Open Redshift configuration, scroll down and configure JDBC driver in section Required libraries. In this example we can simply choose *Add recommended library* option.

The following images show the Amazon S3 and Amazon Redshift configurations:

.Amazon S3 Configuration
image::s3-configuration.png[Amazon S3 configuration]

.Amazon Redshift Configuration
image::redshift-configuration.png[Amazon Redshift configuration]

[[prepare-data-file]]
=== Prepare the Data File

Prepare a data file to upload to Amazon S3. This data file will then be used as the data set in the `COPY` command for the Amazon Redshift table.

. Create a file named `username.csv` in the `src/main/resources/` folder in your Mule project.
. Populate the `username.csv` file with the following sample data:

[source,csv,linenums]
----
Username; Identifier;First name;Last name
booker12;9012;Rachel;Booker
grey07;2070;Laura;Grey
johnson81;4081;Craig;Johnson
jenkins46;9346;Mary;Jenkins
smith79;5079;Jamie;Smith
----

== Flows in This Example

The following screenshots show the Anypoint Studio app flows for this example:

* This flow creates the Amazon Redshift table, Amazon S3 bucket and object:
+
image::create-flow.png[Create the Redshift table Amazon S3 bucket and Amazon S3 object flow]
+
* This flow executes the `COPY` command, which leverages the Amazon Redshift massively parallel processing (MPP) architecture to load data in parallel from a file in an Amazon S3 bucket:
+
image::execute-flow.png[Execute the Copy command flow]
+
* This flow deletes the Amazon Redshift table and Amazon S3 bucket:
+
image:delete-flow.png[Delete the Amazon Redshift table and Amazon S3 bucket flow]

== Run the Example

. Right-click in the project's canvas and select *Run project redshift-demo*.
. Open `localhost:8081/init` in a web browser and wait until it returns a response containing `success:true` with the created table, bucket, and an object.
. Verify that the new Amazon S3 bucket `username-bucket` was created in your Amazon S3 instance.
. Verify that the new Redshift table `username` was created in your Amazon Redshift instance.
. Open `localhost:8081/execute` in a web browser and wait until it returns a response containing `success:true`.
. Verify that the `username` table contains data from the `username.csv` file you added to the Mule project in <<prepare-data-file,Prepare the Data File>>.
. Open `localhost:8081/delete` in a web browser and wait until it returns a response containing `success:true`.
. Verify that both the `username` Amazon Redshift table and `username-bucket` Amazon S3 bucket were deleted.

=== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
