web-service-consumer/1.5/modules/ROOT/pages/web-service-consumer-consume.adoc, before:

= Consume a Web Service - Mule 4

You can start consuming SOAP operations from the configured service once your Web Service Consumer Connector configuration is created. If you have not created a Web Service Consumer configuration yet, see the xref:web-service-consumer-configure.adoc[Web Service Consumer Configuration Documentation]).

The Web Service Consumer Connector contains a single `wsc:consume` operation, which has two important parameters&#8212;Operation (`operation`) and Message (`wsc:message`).

Here is the basic syntax of the `wsc:consume` operation:

.Basic Consume Operation Example
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<wsc:consume config-ref="config" operation="clients-list">
    <wsc:message>
        <wsc:body>#[payload]</wsc:body>
    </wsc:message>
</wsc:consume>
----

If something goes wrong when dispatching the SOAP message, you will receive an `WSC:CANNOT_DISPATCH` error.

== Operation Parameter

The `operation` parameter defines which SOAP operation of the Web service to invoke. In design time, the operation parameter defines the input and output types for the `consume` operation. The types will change depending on which operation you choose.

== Message Parameter

The `message` parameter is a representation of the `SOAP:ENVELOP` that
is composed of three elements: Body, Headers, and Attachments. All are optional.

=== Body

The `body` is the main part of the message. It contains the SOAP message that is intended for the ultimate endpoint of the SOAP message. This parameter is always an XML application-specific
element.

The `body` element accepts embedded DataWeave scripts as values so that you can construct the XML request without having a side effect on the message or having to use multiple components to create the request. By default, the value of the message body is `#[payload]`. This means that, by default, it expects that the incoming payload is the XML entity that is ready to be shipped to the service.

Here is an example of a transformation inside the body element:

.DataWeave expression inside the body parameter
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<wsc:consume config-ref="config" operation="addClients">
    <wsc:message>
        <wsc:body>
        #[
        %dw 2.0
        output application/xml
        ns con http://service.soap.clients.namespace/
        ---
        con#clients: {
            client: {
                name: "Natasha",
                lastname: "Ferrari"
            },
            client: {
                name: "Lucas",
                lastname: "Barzola"
            }
        }]
        </wsc:body>
    </wsc:message>
</wsc:consume>
----

If the body is not a valid XML, or if the request cannot be created for some reason, you will get a `WSC:BAD_REQUEST` error.

If no body content is provided, the Web Service Consumer attempts to generate one. This will only work for cases where no XML entity is expected in the body.

=== Headers

The optional `headers` element contains application-specific information (like authentication, payment, and so on) about the SOAP message. Like the `body` element, this element is an XML entity, and it can embed a DataWeave script as its value, for example:

.DataWeave expression inside the headers parameter
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<wsc:consume config-ref="config" operation="addClients">
    <wsc:message>
        <wsc:body>#[payload]</wsc:body>
        <wsc:headers>
          #[
          %dw 2.0
          output application/xml
          ns con http://service.soap.clients.namespace/
          ---
          "headers": {
              con#user: "NahuelMonin",
              con#pass: "%M4g\/iT0Rn4!"
          }]
        </wsc:header>
    </wsc:message>
</wsc:consume>
----

In Anypoint Studio, after you drag the Web Service Consumer `Consume` operation to the canvas, the properties
for the Web Service Consumer let you specify the SOAP headers in the *Headers* field.

For more information on setting SOAP headers, see https://help.mulesoft.com/s/article/How-to-set-SOAP-header-for-Mule-4-Web-Service-Consumer[How to set SOAP headers in Web Service Consumer in Mule 4].

=== Attachments

The `attachments` element enables you to bind attachments to the SOAP message. To create attachments for transport over SOAP, you need to declare a DataWeave script in which each entry represents an attachment and its value provides the content of the attachment, for example:

.DataWeave expression inside the attachments parameter
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<wsc:consume config-ref="config" operation="addClients">
    <wsc:message>
        <wsc:body>#[payload]</wsc:body>
        <wsc:attachments>
          #[{ clientsJson: vars.jsonFile } ]
        </wsc:attachments>
    </wsc:message>
</wsc:consume>
----

The example declares a new attachment called `clientsJson` the content of which is stored in the variable called `jsonFile`. This variable could be set from a `file:read` operation, for example.

== Output

The output of the `consume` operation represents an incoming SOAP message that contains the same elements that the `message` parameter has, and you can access each part of it.

Here is an example:

.DataWeave expression inside the body parameter
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="output">
  <wsc:consume config-ref="config" operation="addClients">
      <wsc:message>
          <wsc:body>#[payload]</wsc:body>
      </wsc:message>
  </wsc:consume>
  <set-variable name="soap.body" value="#[payload.body]">
  <set-variable name="soap.auth.header" value="#[payload.headers.auth]">
  <set-variable name="soap.attachment.json" value="#[payload.attachments.json]">
</flow>
----

The example stores the content of the body in a new variable called `soap.body`. It stores a header called `auth` in a `soap.auth.header` variable, and it stores the content of an attachment called `json` in a variable called `soap.attachment.json`.

== Attributes

When consuming a Web service operation, you might be interested not only in response content but also in metadata of the underlying transport used to dispatch the messages. For example, when you use
HTTP, attributes carry HTTP headers that are bound to the HTTP request (`content-length`, `status`, and so on).

The Web Service Consumer Connector uses the Mule Message Attributes to access this information.


== See Also

* xref:web-service-consumer-reference.adoc[Web Service Consumer Connector Reference]
* xref:web-service-consumer-configure.adoc[To Configure the WSC]

Commit message:

Added DW headers clarification error

web-service-consumer/1.5/modules/ROOT/pages/web-service-consumer-consume.adoc, after:

= Consume a Web Service - Mule 4

You can start consuming SOAP operations from the configured service once your Web Service Consumer Connector configuration is created. If you have not created a Web Service Consumer configuration yet, see the xref:web-service-consumer-configure.adoc[Web Service Consumer Configuration Documentation]).

The Web Service Consumer Connector contains a single `wsc:consume` operation, which has two important parameters&#8212;Operation (`operation`) and Message (`wsc:message`).

Here is the basic syntax of the `wsc:consume` operation:

.Basic Consume Operation Example
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<wsc:consume config-ref="config" operation="clients-list">
    <wsc:message>
        <wsc:body>#[payload]</wsc:body>
    </wsc:message>
</wsc:consume>
----

If something goes wrong when dispatching the SOAP message, you will receive an `WSC:CANNOT_DISPATCH` error.

== Operation Parameter

The `operation` parameter defines which SOAP operation of the Web service to invoke. In design time, the operation parameter defines the input and output types for the `consume` operation. The types will change depending on which operation you choose.

== Message Parameter

The `message` parameter is a representation of the `SOAP:ENVELOP` that
is composed of three elements: Body, Headers, and Attachments. All are optional.

=== Body

The `body` is the main part of the message. It contains the SOAP message that is intended for the ultimate endpoint of the SOAP message. This parameter is always an XML application-specific
element.

The `body` element accepts embedded DataWeave scripts as values so that you can construct the XML request without having a side effect on the message or having to use multiple components to create the request. By default, the value of the message body is `#[payload]`. This means that, by default, it expects that the incoming payload is the XML entity that is ready to be shipped to the service.

Here is an example of a transformation inside the body element:

.DataWeave expression inside the body parameter
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<wsc:consume config-ref="config" operation="addClients">
    <wsc:message>
        <wsc:body>
        #[
        %dw 2.0
        output application/xml
        ns con http://service.soap.clients.namespace/
        ---
        con#clients: {
            client: {
                name: "Natasha",
                lastname: "Ferrari"
            },
            client: {
                name: "Lucas",
                lastname: "Barzola"
            }
        }]
        </wsc:body>
    </wsc:message>
</wsc:consume>
----

If the body is not a valid XML, or if the request cannot be created for some reason, you will get a `WSC:BAD_REQUEST` error.

If no body content is provided, the Web Service Consumer attempts to generate one. This will only work for cases where no XML entity is expected in the body.

=== Headers

The optional `headers` element contains application-specific information (like authentication, payment, and so on) about the SOAP message. Like the `body` element, this element is an XML entity, and it can embed a DataWeave script as its value, for example:

.DataWeave expression inside the headers parameter
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<wsc:consume config-ref="config" operation="addClients">
    <wsc:message>
        <wsc:body>#[payload]</wsc:body>
        <wsc:headers>
          #[
          %dw 2.0
          output application/xml
          ns con http://service.soap.clients.namespace/
          ---
          "headers": {
              con#user: "NahuelMonin",
              con#pass: "%M4g\/iT0Rn4!"
          }]
        </wsc:header>
    </wsc:message>
</wsc:consume>
----

Note that inside the DW script the root must be `"headers"`. Otherwise, the following error returns while running the application `Invalid input headers XML: It must be an xml with the root tag named \'headers\'`.


In Anypoint Studio, after you drag the Web Service Consumer `Consume` operation to the canvas, the properties
for the Web Service Consumer let you specify the SOAP headers in the *Headers* field.

For more information on setting SOAP headers, see https://help.mulesoft.com/s/article/How-to-set-SOAP-header-for-Mule-4-Web-Service-Consumer[How to set SOAP headers in Web Service Consumer in Mule 4].

=== Attachments

The `attachments` element enables you to bind attachments to the SOAP message. To create attachments for transport over SOAP, you need to declare a DataWeave script in which each entry represents an attachment and its value provides the content of the attachment, for example:

.DataWeave expression inside the attachments parameter
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<wsc:consume config-ref="config" operation="addClients">
    <wsc:message>
        <wsc:body>#[payload]</wsc:body>
        <wsc:attachments>
          #[{ clientsJson: vars.jsonFile } ]
        </wsc:attachments>
    </wsc:message>
</wsc:consume>
----

The example declares a new attachment called `clientsJson` the content of which is stored in the variable called `jsonFile`. This variable could be set from a `file:read` operation, for example.

== Output

The output of the `consume` operation represents an incoming SOAP message that contains the same elements that the `message` parameter has, and you can access each part of it.

Here is an example:

.DataWeave expression inside the body parameter
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="output">
  <wsc:consume config-ref="config" operation="addClients">
      <wsc:message>
          <wsc:body>#[payload]</wsc:body>
      </wsc:message>
  </wsc:consume>
  <set-variable name="soap.body" value="#[payload.body]">
  <set-variable name="soap.auth.header" value="#[payload.headers.auth]">
  <set-variable name="soap.attachment.json" value="#[payload.attachments.json]">
</flow>
----

The example stores the content of the body in a new variable called `soap.body`. It stores a header called `auth` in a `soap.auth.header` variable, and it stores the content of an attachment called `json` in a variable called `soap.attachment.json`.

== Attributes

When consuming a Web service operation, you might be interested not only in response content but also in metadata of the underlying transport used to dispatch the messages. For example, when you use
HTTP, attributes carry HTTP headers that are bound to the HTTP request (`content-length`, `status`, and so on).

The Web Service Consumer Connector uses the Mule Message Attributes to access this information.


== See Also

* xref:web-service-consumer-reference.adoc[Web Service Consumer Connector Reference]
* xref:web-service-consumer-configure.adoc[To Configure the WSC]
