salesforce-data-cloud/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/salesforce-cdp-connector-studio.adoc, before:

= Use Anypoint Studio to Configure Salesforce CDP Connector 1.0 - Mule 4

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-source,Configure a source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.
. <<configure-other-fields,Configure the other connector fields>>.

When you run the connector, you can view the app log to check for problems in real time, as described in <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.

If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the xref:salesforce-data-cloud-connector-reference.adoc[Salesforce CDP Reference].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector: 

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add Salesforce CDP Connector to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In the *Add Dependencies to Project* window, type `salesforce CDP` in the search field.
. Click Salesforce CDP in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these sources to use with Salesforce CDP Connector:

* HTTP Listener +
Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* Scheduler +
Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure an HTTP Listener source, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP > Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Path* field.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the HTTP Listener source in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify connection information for the connector.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify the TLS information for the connector.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you are specifying an action for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for Salesforce CDP Connector, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Salesforce CDP* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas next to the input source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials that the connector requires to access the target Salesforce CDP system. Salesforce CDP Connector supports OAuth JWT and OAuth username and password authentication.

To configure the global element for Salesforce CDP Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the operation in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. On the *General* tab, On the *General* tab, in *Connection*, select the authentication method to configure:
* <<oauth-jwt,*OAuth JWT*>>
* <<oauth-username-password,*OAuth Username Password*>>
+
You can reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders (recommended), or you can enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties. For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see xref:introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[oauth-jwt]]
=== OAuth JWT

Enter the following information on the *General* tab of the *Global Element Properties* screen to configure OAuth JWT authentication:

[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field a|Description
|Consumer key | Consumer key for the Salesforce-connected app. See the Salesforce documentation for information about generating a consumer key.
| Key store | Path to the keystore that signs data during authentication. See <<Generate a Keystore File>>.
| Store password | Password for the keystore.
| Password | Corresponding password.
| Certificate Alias| Alias of the certificate to use if the specified keystore contains multiple certificates.
| Principal | Username of the Salesforce user.
|===

The following image shows an example of configuring OAuth JWT authentication:

image::<image>.png[Basic is selected in the Connection field and the authentication fields are completed on the *General* tab.]

The first item shows where to specify that the connector will use OAuth JWT authentication. The second item shows the *General tab*, which contains fields related to OAuth JWT authentication.

[[oauth-username-password]]
=== OAuth Username Password

Enter the following information on the *General* tab of the *Global Element Properties* screen to configure OAuth Username Password authentication:

[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field a|Description
|Consumer key | Consumer key for the Salesforce-connected app. See the Salesforce documentation for information about generating a consumer key.
| Consumer secret | Consumer secret for the connector to access Salesforce.
| Username | Salesforce username.
| Password | Corresponding password.
| Security token| Corresponding security token.
|===

The following image shows an example of configuring OAuth Username Password authentication:

image::<image>.png[Basic is selected in the Connection field and the authentication fields are completed on the *General* tab.]

The first item shows where to specify that the connector will use OAuth Username Password authentication. The second item shows the *General tab*, which contains fields related to OAuth Username Password authentication.

[[configure-other-fields]]
== Configure Additional Connector Fields

After you configure a global element for Salesforce CDP Connector, configure the the other required fields for the connector. The required fields vary depending on which connector operation you use. 

[[view-app-log]]
== View the App Log

To check for problems, you can view the app log as follows:

* If you’re running the app from Anypoint Platform, the app log output is visible in the Anypoint Studio console window.
* If you’re running the app using Mule from the command line, the app log output is visible in your OS console.

Unless the log file path is customized in the app’s log file (`log4j2.xml`), you can also view the app log in the default location `MULE_HOME/logs/<app-name>.log`. You can configure the location of the log path in the app log file `log4j2.xml`. 

== Next Step

See xref:salesforce-data-cloud-connector-config-topics.adoc[Additional Configuration Information] for more configuration steps.

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]
* xref:salesforce-data-cloud-connector-reference.adoc[Salesforce CDP Connector Reference]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

Updated to sync with other PR, added images

salesforce-data-cloud/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/salesforce-cdp-connector-studio.adoc, after:

= Use Anypoint Studio to Configure Salesforce CDP Connector 1.0 - Mule 4

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-source,Configure a source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.
. <<configure-other-fields,Configure the other connector fields>>.

When you run the connector, you can view the app log to check for problems in real time, as described in <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.

If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the xref:salesforce-cdp-connector-reference.adoc[Salesforce CDP Reference].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector: 

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add Salesforce CDP Connector to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In the *Add Dependencies to Project* window, type `salesforce CDP` in the search field.
. Click Salesforce CDP in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these sources to use with Salesforce CDP Connector:

* HTTP Listener +
Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* Scheduler +
Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure an HTTP Listener source, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP > Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Path* field.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the HTTP Listener source in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify connection information for the connector.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify the TLS information for the connector.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you are specifying an action for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for Salesforce CDP Connector, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Salesforce CDP* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas next to the input source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials that the connector requires to access the target Salesforce CDP system. Salesforce CDP Connector supports OAuth JWT and OAuth Username Password authentication.

To configure the global element for Salesforce CDP Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the operation in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. On the *General* tab, On the *General* tab, in *Connection*, select the authentication method to configure:
* <<oauth-jwt,*OAuth JWT*>>
* <<oauth-username-password,*OAuth Username Password*>>
+
You can reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders (recommended), or you can enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties. For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see xref:introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[oauth-jwt]]
=== OAuth JWT

OAuth JWT uses OAuth 2.0 with a JSON Web Token (JWT) request for user authentication.

Enter the following information on the *General* tab of the *Global Element Properties* screen to configure OAuth JWT authentication:

[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field a|Description
|Consumer key | Consumer key for the Salesforce-connected app. See the Salesforce documentation for information about generating a consumer key.
| Key store | Path to the keystore that signs data during authentication. See xref:salesforce-cdp-connector-config-topics.adoc[Additional Configuration Information] on how to generate a keystore file.
| Store password | Password for the keystore.
| Certificate alias| Alias of the certificate to use if the specified keystore contains multiple certificates.
| Subject | Username of the Salesforce user.
| Audience url | The URL of the authorization server.
|===

The following image shows an example of configuring OAuth JWT authentication:

image::salesforce-cdp-studio-oauth-jwt.png[OAuth JWT is selected in the Connection field and the authentication fields are completed on the *General* tab.]

The first item shows where to specify that the connector will use OAuth JWT authentication. The second item shows the *General tab*, which contains fields related to OAuth JWT authentication.

[[oauth-username-password]]
=== OAuth Username Password

OAuth Username Password authentication uses OAuth 2.0 with a user and password for authentication.

Enter the following information on the *General* tab of the *Global Element Properties* screen to configure OAuth Username Password authentication:

[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field a|Description
|Consumer key | Consumer key for the Salesforce-connected app. See the Salesforce documentation for information about generating a consumer key.
| Consumer secret | Consumer secret for the connector to access Salesforce.
| Username | Salesforce username.
| Password | Corresponding password.
| Audience url | The URL of the authorization server.
|===

The following image shows an example of configuring OAuth Username Password authentication:

image::salesforce-cdp-studio-oauth-user-pass.png[OAuth Username Password is selected in the Connection field and the authentication fields are completed on the *General* tab.]

The first item shows where to specify that the connector will use OAuth Username Password authentication. The second item shows the *General tab*, which contains fields related to OAuth Username Password authentication.

[[configure-other-fields]]
== Configure Additional Connector Fields

After you configure a global element for Salesforce CDP Connector, configure the the other required fields for the connector. The required fields vary depending on which connector operation you use. 

[[view-app-log]]
== View the App Log

To check for problems, you can view the app log as follows:

* If you’re running the app from Anypoint Platform, the app log output is visible in the Anypoint Studio console window.
* If you’re running the app using Mule from the command line, the app log output is visible in your OS console.

Unless the log file path is customized in the app’s log file (`log4j2.xml`), you can also view the app log in the default location `MULE_HOME/logs/<app-name>.log`. You can configure the location of the log path in the app log file `log4j2.xml`. 

== Next Step

See xref:salesforce-cdp-connector-config-topics.adoc[Additional Configuration Information] for more configuration steps.

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]
* xref:salesforce-cdp-connector-reference.adoc[Salesforce CDP Connector Reference]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
