intercom/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, before:

= Intercom Connector 1.0 - Mule 4

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

Anypoint Connector for Intercom (Intercom Connector) synchronizes data and automates business processes between Google Sheets and third-party applications, either on-premises or in the cloud.

Google Sheets is a real-time spreadsheet tool with powerful functions to help teams efficiently perform many functions ranging from helping sales teams collaborate on leads or opportunities to HR teams collaborate on candidates for interviewing and hiring.

For compatibility information and fixed issues, see the Intercom Connector Release Notes.

== Prerequisites

To use this connector, you must be familiar with:

* The Intercom APIs
* Anypoint Connectors
* Mule runtime engine (Mule)
* Elements and global elements in a Mule flow
* Creating a Mule app using Anypoint Studio (Studio)

Before creating an app, you must have:

* Credentials to access the target resource
* Anypoint Studio version 7.3.5 or later

== Common Use Cases for the Connector

Automate powerful business processes by integrating Google Sheets with other IT tools and systems in your enterprise such as messaging, CRM, ERP, and others. Possibilities include:

* Qualify customer leads efficiently by automating a flow where any time a new customer reaches out via Intercom’s chat functionality, a new lead or opportunity is created in Salesforce for a sales representative follow-up.

* Enhance customer experience by notifying the relevant teams (such as customer support, product) via Slack or MS Teams instantly any time a customer reaches out with an issue via Intercom’s chat.

* Keep all your teams in sync with the most recent and relevant information around a customer synced across Intercom and your other IT systems via bi-directional sync automation.  This can be your case data within your customer support system, your new leads data in your CRM system, or issue data in your ITSM system. 

== Authentication Types

Intercom Connector connections use the following authentication methods:

* OAuth 2.0
* Unsecure connection provider


== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:connectors::introduction/intro-use-exchange.adoc[Use Exchange to Discover Connectors, Templates, and Examples]
* xref:intercom-connector-reference.adoc[Intercom Reference]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

Removed Google Sheets from Intercom Intro

intercom/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, after:

= Intercom Connector 1.0 - Mule 4

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

Anypoint Connector for Intercom (Intercom Connector) synchronizes data and automates business processes between Google Sheets and third-party applications, either on-premises or in the cloud.

Intercom is an enterprise communication tool to help customers easily learn about the company’s products and contact the service and support teams, via a chatlike interface. 

For compatibility information and fixed issues, see the Intercom Connector Release Notes.

== Prerequisites

To use this connector, you must be familiar with:

* The Intercom APIs
* Anypoint Connectors
* Mule runtime engine (Mule)
* Elements and global elements in a Mule flow
* Creating a Mule app using Anypoint Studio (Studio)

Before creating an app, you must have:

* Credentials to access the target resource
* Anypoint Studio version 7.3.5 or later

== Common Use Cases for the Connector

Automate powerful business processes by integrating Intercom with other IT tools and systems in your enterprise such as messaging, CRM, ITSM and other enterprise systems. Possibilities include:

* Qualify customer leads efficiently by automating a flow where any time a new customer reaches out via Intercom’s chat functionality, a new lead or opportunity is created in Salesforce for a sales representative follow-up.

* Enhance customer experience by notifying the relevant teams (such as customer support, product) via Slack or MS Teams instantly any time a customer reaches out with an issue via Intercom’s chat.

* Keep all your teams in sync with the most recent and relevant information around a customer synced across Intercom and your other IT systems via bi-directional sync automation.  This can be your case data within your customer support system, your new leads data in your CRM system, or issue data in your ITSM system. 

== Authentication Types

Intercom Connector connections use the following authentication methods:

* OAuth 2.0
* Unsecure connection provider


== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:connectors::introduction/intro-use-exchange.adoc[Use Exchange to Discover Connectors, Templates, and Examples]
* xref:intercom-connector-reference.adoc[Intercom Reference]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
