workday/12.1/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, before:

= Workday Connector - Get Started - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::workday/workday-about.adoc, connectors::workday/workday-connector.adoc

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

Workday Connector Version 12.0

Anypoint Connector for Workday (Workday Connector) provides access to standard Workday operations.
Workday is a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) solution developed by Workday, Inc.
Workday provides a set of software apps for financial and human capital management, such as
human resources, staffing, recruiting, and performance.

Release Notes: xref:release-notes::connector/workday-connector-release-notes-mule-4.adoc[Workday Connector Release Notes] +
Exchange: https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/com.mulesoft.connectors/mule-workday-connector/[Workday Connector]

== About Connectors

Anypoint connectors are Mule runtime engine extensions that enable you to connect
to APIs and resources on external systems, such as Salesforce, Workday, ServiceNow,
and Twitter.

== Prerequisites

Before creating an app, you must have access to the Workday target resource and
Anypoint Platform. You also need to understand how to create a Mule app using
Design Center or Anypoint Studio.

== Audience

* Starting user
+
To create your Mule app,
see xref:workday-connector-design-center.adoc[Design Center Configuration]
or xref:workday-connector-studio.adoc[Studio Configuration].
The
xref:workday-connector-config-topics.adoc[Additional Configuration Information]
topic helps extend your understanding of the Workday connector.
The xref:workday-connector-examples.adoc[Examples] topic provides one or more use cases for using the connector.
* Power user
+
Read the xref:workday-connector-xml-maven.adoc[XML and Maven Support]
and xref:workday-connector-examples.adoc[Examples] topics.

== Common Use Cases For the Connector

The common use case for Workday Connector is starting any of Workday's standard operations. xref:workday-connector-examples.adoc[Example] use cases include creating a position request in Workday or adding a fund to the financial management service.

== Learn Using Exchange Templates and Examples

https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/[Anypoint Exchange] provides templates
you can use as a starting point for your app, as well as examples that illustrate a complete solution.

* https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2snow-worker-bidirectional-sync[Workday and ServiceNow Worker Bidirectional Sync]
* https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-sfdc2wday-user-bidirectional-sync[Salesforce and Workday Bidirectional Sync]
* https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2snow-workerservicerequest-migration[Workday Worker to ServiceNow Service Request Migration]
* https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2sfdc-worker-migration[Salesforce to Workday Financials Account - Customer Migration]
* https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2snow-employee-aggregation[Workday and ServiceNow Employee Aggregation]
* https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2sfdc-worker-aggregation[Workday and Salesforce Worker Aggregation]
* https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2snow-worker-migration[Workday to ServiceNow Service Worker Migration]
* https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2snow-worker2servicerequest-broadcast[Workday Worker to ServiceNow Service Request Broadcast]
* https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2snow-worker2user-broadcast[Workday Worker to ServiceNow User Broadcast]
* https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2sfdc-workercase-broadcast[Workday to Salesforce Worker Case Broadcast]

== Next Step

After you have met the prerequisites and experimented with templates and examples, you are ready to create an app with
xref:workday-connector-design-center.adoc[Design Center] or xref:workday-connector-studio.adoc[Anypoint Studio].

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:connectors::introduction/intro-use-exchange.adoc[Use Exchange to Discover Connectors, Templates, and Examples]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

Deleted Design Ctr and additional config topic
Added troubleshooting topic
Updated Studio topic to align to updated template

workday/12.1/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, after:

= Workday Connector 12.1 - Get Started - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::workday/workday-about.adoc, connectors::workday/workday-connector.adoc

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]


Anypoint Connector for Workday (Workday Connector) provides access to standard Workday operations. Workday is a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) solution developed by Workday, Inc.
Workday provides a set of software apps for financial and human capital management, such as human resources, staffing, recruiting, and performance.

Workday Connector provides operations that you can use to perform tasks for educational organizations, human resources, professional services, payroll, and benefits administration.

For compatibility information and fixed issues, see the release notes.

== Prerequisites

Before creating an app, you must have access to the Workday target resource and
Anypoint Platform. You also need to understand how to create a Mule app using Anypoint Studio.

== Audience

* New user
+
To create your Mule app,
see xref:workday-connector-design-center.adoc[Design Center Configuration]
or xref:workday-connector-studio.adoc[Studio Configuration].
The
xref:workday-connector-config-topics.adoc[Additional Configuration Information]
topic helps extend your understanding of the Workday connector.
The xref:workday-connector-examples.adoc[Examples] topic provides one or more use cases for using the connector.
* Advanced user
+
Read the xref:workday-connector-xml-maven.adoc[XML and Maven Support]
and xref:workday-connector-examples.adoc[Examples] topics.

== Common Use Cases For the Connector

The common use case for Workday Connector is starting any of Workday's standard operations. xref:workday-connector-examples.adoc[Example] use cases include creating a position request in Workday or adding a fund to the financial management service.

== Using Exchange Templates and Examples

https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/[Anypoint Exchange] provides templates
you can use as a starting point for your app, as well as examples that illustrate a complete solution.

* https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2snow-worker-bidirectional-sync[Workday and ServiceNow Worker Bidirectional Sync]
* https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-sfdc2wday-user-bidirectional-sync[Salesforce and Workday Bidirectional Sync]
* https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2snow-workerservicerequest-migration[Workday Worker to ServiceNow Service Request Migration]
* https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2sfdc-worker-migration[Salesforce to Workday Financials Account - Customer Migration]
* https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2snow-employee-aggregation[Workday and ServiceNow Employee Aggregation]
* https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2sfdc-worker-aggregation[Workday and Salesforce Worker Aggregation]
* https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2snow-worker-migration[Workday to ServiceNow Service Worker Migration]
* https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2snow-worker2servicerequest-broadcast[Workday Worker to ServiceNow Service Request Broadcast]
* https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2snow-worker2user-broadcast[Workday Worker to ServiceNow User Broadcast]
* https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.templates/template-wday2sfdc-workercase-broadcast[Workday to Salesforce Worker Case Broadcast]

== Next Step

After you complete the prerequisites and experiment with templates and examples, you are ready to create an app with
xref:workday-connector-design-center.adoc[Design Center] or xref:workday-connector-studio.adoc[Anypoint Studio].

== See Also

* xref:release-notes::connector/workday-connector-release-notes-mule-4.adoc[Workday Connector Release Notes]
* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/com.mulesoft.connectors/mule-workday-connector/[Workday Connector on Exchange]
* xref:connectors::introduction/intro-use-exchange.adoc[Use Exchange to Discover Connectors, Templates, and Examples]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
