ftps/1.6/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, before:

= FTPS Connector - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::ftp/ftps-connector.adoc

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Premium]

FTPS Connector v1.6

Anypoint Connector for FTPS (FTPS Connector) connects to FTP servers the same way as the xref:ftp-connector::index.adoc[FTP connector] but adds support for xref:mule-runtime::tls-configuration.adoc[Transport Layer Security (TLS)].



== POM File Information

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
  <artifactId>mule-ftps-connector</artifactId>
  <version>RELEASE</version>
  <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----

Mule converts RELEASE to the latest version. To specify a version, view
https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/com.mulesoft.connectors/mule-ftps-connector/[FTPS Connector] in
Anypoint Exchange and click *Dependency Snippets*.

== Create a Connection

To create a basic FTPS Connection the `host` and `workingDir` (where the FTPS server
is placed) are required. Additionally the `port`, which defaults to 21, can be also configured, and if the server runs with some security, you can specify a `username` and `password`.

[source, xml, linenums]
----
<ftps:config name="FTPS_Config">
  <ftps:connection username="anonymous" password="password"
   host="0.0.0.0" port="21" workingDir="${workingDir}">
    <tls:context>
        <tls:trust-store path="path/to/keystore" password="mulepassword" />
    </tls:context>
  </ftps:connection>
</ftps:config>
----

=== FTPS Mode

Available in version 1.4.0 and later.

==== Explicit

The default way to connect to the FTP Server, which connects in an unprotected way
to the server. The client can negotiate TLS for either the command or data
channel.

===== Data Channel Protection Level (PROT)

In the FTPS Connector, two protection levels are configurable:

* *Clear* (Default): The default protection level if no other level is specified is
Clear. The Clear protection level indicates that the data channel carries
the raw data of the file transfer, with no security applied.
* *Private*: The Private protection level indicates that the integrity of the data
and confidentiality are protected.

[source, xml, linenums]
----
 <ftps:config name="FTPS_Config">
   <ftps:connection username="anonymous" password="password"
    host="0.0.0.0" port="21" workingDir="${workingDir}">
     <tls:context>
         <tls:trust-store path="path/to/keystore" password="mulepassword" />
     </tls:context>
     <ftps:ftps-mode >
         <ftps:ftps-explicit-mode protSetting="PRIVATE" />
     </ftps:ftps-mode>
   </ftps:connection>
 </ftps:config>
----

image::ftps-prot-setting.png[FTPS Data Channel Protection Level]

==== Implicit

FTPS Implicit mode assumes that a secure connection through an SSL/TLS handshake must take place before any FTP command is sent. This ensures that the entire FTP session is encrypted.

[source, xml, linenums]
----
<ftps:config name="FTPS_Config">
  <ftps:connection username="anonymous" password="password"
   host="0.0.0.0" port="21" workingDir="${workingDir}">
    <tls:context>
        <tls:trust-store path="path/to/keystore" password="mulepassword" />
    </tls:context>
    <ftps:ftps-mode >
        <ftps:ftps-implicit-mode />
    </ftps:ftps-mode>
  </ftps:connection>
</ftps:config>
----

== Add the Connector to Your Project

Anypoint Studio provides two ways to add the connector to your Studio project: from the Exchange button in the Studio taskbar or from the Mule Palette view.

=== Add the Connector Using Exchange

. In Studio, create a Mule project.
. Click the Exchange icon *(X)* in the upper-left of the Studio task bar.
. In Exchange, click *Login* and supply your Anypoint Platform username and password.
. In Exchange, search for "ftps".
. Select the connector and click *Add to project*.
. Follow the prompts to install the connector.

=== Add the Connector in Studio

. In Studio, create a Mule project.
. In the Mule Palette view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type "ftps" in the search field.
. Click this connector's name in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.


== Configure TLS with Keystores and Truststores

You can use Transport Layer Security (TLS) and configure FTPS by providing a key store with your certificate. You can also enable 2-way authentication by providing a trust store. For details, see xref:mule-runtime::tls-configuration.adoc[Configure TLS with Keystores and Truststores].

* For more on SSL configuration in Mule, see xref:mule-runtime::tls-configuration.adoc[About TLS Configuration].
* For more on other functionality provided by this connector, see xref:ftp-connector::index.adoc[FTP Connector Documentation Reference].

== Java JDK Configuration for Session Reuse

To be able to reuse sessions using FTPS you need to add the following argument to the JVM:
---
-M-Djdk.tls.useExtendedMasterSecret=false
---
This disables the Extended Master Secret extension for compatibility (JDK-8192045) which by default is set to true. The Extended Master Secret extension protects users from vulnerabilities based on the ability to use the same session on different sets of clients and servers. Therefore, it contradicts the demand to use the same session for control and data connections. With this option enabled, only session reuse is allowed with endpoint verification, which is implemented for HTTPS and LDAP only.


[[see_also]]
== See Also

* xref:ftp-connector::index.adoc[FTP Connector Documentation]
* xref:ftps-documentation.adoc[FTPS Connector Reference]
* xref:release-notes::connector/connector-ftps.adoc[FTPS Connector Release Notes]
* https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/com.mulesoft.connectors/mule-ftps-connector/[FTPS Connector]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

Updated FTPS JVM/JDK Configuration

ftps/1.6/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, after:

= FTPS Connector - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::ftp/ftps-connector.adoc

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Premium]

FTPS Connector v1.6

Anypoint Connector for FTPS (FTPS Connector) connects to FTP servers the same way as the xref:ftp-connector::index.adoc[FTP connector] but adds support for xref:mule-runtime::tls-configuration.adoc[Transport Layer Security (TLS)].



== POM File Information

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
  <artifactId>mule-ftps-connector</artifactId>
  <version>RELEASE</version>
  <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----

Mule converts RELEASE to the latest version. To specify a version, view
https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/com.mulesoft.connectors/mule-ftps-connector/[FTPS Connector] in
Anypoint Exchange and click *Dependency Snippets*.

== Create a Connection

To create a basic FTPS Connection the `host` and `workingDir` (where the FTPS server
is placed) are required. Additionally the `port`, which defaults to 21, can be also configured, and if the server runs with some security, you can specify a `username` and `password`.

[source, xml, linenums]
----
<ftps:config name="FTPS_Config">
  <ftps:connection username="anonymous" password="password"
   host="0.0.0.0" port="21" workingDir="${workingDir}">
    <tls:context>
        <tls:trust-store path="path/to/keystore" password="mulepassword" />
    </tls:context>
  </ftps:connection>
</ftps:config>
----

=== FTPS Mode

Available in version 1.4.0 and later.

==== Explicit

The default way to connect to the FTP Server, which connects in an unprotected way
to the server. The client can negotiate TLS for either the command or data
channel.

===== Data Channel Protection Level (PROT)

In the FTPS Connector, two protection levels are configurable:

* *Clear* (Default): The default protection level if no other level is specified is
Clear. The Clear protection level indicates that the data channel carries
the raw data of the file transfer, with no security applied.
* *Private*: The Private protection level indicates that the integrity of the data
and confidentiality are protected.

[source, xml, linenums]
----
 <ftps:config name="FTPS_Config">
   <ftps:connection username="anonymous" password="password"
    host="0.0.0.0" port="21" workingDir="${workingDir}">
     <tls:context>
         <tls:trust-store path="path/to/keystore" password="mulepassword" />
     </tls:context>
     <ftps:ftps-mode >
         <ftps:ftps-explicit-mode protSetting="PRIVATE" />
     </ftps:ftps-mode>
   </ftps:connection>
 </ftps:config>
----

image::ftps-prot-setting.png[FTPS Data Channel Protection Level]

==== Implicit

FTPS Implicit mode assumes that a secure connection through an SSL/TLS handshake must take place before any FTP command is sent. This ensures that the entire FTP session is encrypted.

[source, xml, linenums]
----
<ftps:config name="FTPS_Config">
  <ftps:connection username="anonymous" password="password"
   host="0.0.0.0" port="21" workingDir="${workingDir}">
    <tls:context>
        <tls:trust-store path="path/to/keystore" password="mulepassword" />
    </tls:context>
    <ftps:ftps-mode >
        <ftps:ftps-implicit-mode />
    </ftps:ftps-mode>
  </ftps:connection>
</ftps:config>
----

== Add the Connector to Your Project

Anypoint Studio provides two ways to add the connector to your Studio project: from the Exchange button in the Studio taskbar or from the Mule Palette view.

=== Add the Connector Using Exchange

. In Studio, create a Mule project.
. Click the Exchange icon *(X)* in the upper-left of the Studio task bar.
. In Exchange, click *Login* and supply your Anypoint Platform username and password.
. In Exchange, search for "ftps".
. Select the connector and click *Add to project*.
. Follow the prompts to install the connector.

=== Add the Connector in Studio

. In Studio, create a Mule project.
. In the Mule Palette view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type "ftps" in the search field.
. Click this connector's name in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.


== Configure TLS with Keystores and Truststores

You can use Transport Layer Security (TLS) and configure FTPS by providing a key store with your certificate. You can also enable 2-way authentication by providing a trust store. For details, see xref:mule-runtime::tls-configuration.adoc[Configure TLS with Keystores and Truststores].

* For more on SSL configuration in Mule, see xref:mule-runtime::tls-configuration.adoc[About TLS Configuration].
* For more on other functionality provided by this connector, see xref:ftp-connector::index.adoc[FTP Connector Documentation Reference].

== Configure Java JDK for Session Reuse

To reuse sessions using FTPS you must disable the Extended Master Secret extension for compatibility (JDK-8192045), which by default is set to true. The Extended Master Secret extension protects users from vulnerabilities based on the ability to use the same session on different sets of clients and servers. Therefore, it contradicts the demand to use the same session for control and data connections. If the Extended Master Secret extension is enabled, session reuse is allowed only with an endpoint verification, which is implemented for HTTPS and LDAP only.

To disable the Extended Master Secret extension:

If you run your Mule application in standalone, add the following argument to the JVM execution:

`./bin/mule -Djdk.tls.useExtendedMasterSecret=false`

If you run your Mule application in Anypoint Studio:

. Click *Run > Run Configurations...*.
. In the *Run Configurations* screen, click the *(x)=Arguments* tab.
. In the *VM arguments* box, add the following argument to the JVM execution:
+
`-M-Djdk.tls.useExtendedMasterSecret=false`
[start=4]
. Click *Apply*.
. Click *Run*.

.JVM argument to disable Extended Master Secret in Anypoint Studio
image::ftps-jvm-configuration.png[alt=``]

[[see_also]]
== See Also

* xref:ftp-connector::index.adoc[FTP Connector Documentation]
* xref:ftps-documentation.adoc[FTPS Connector Reference]
* xref:release-notes::connector/connector-ftps.adoc[FTPS Connector Release Notes]
* https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/com.mulesoft.connectors/mule-ftps-connector/[FTPS Connector]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
