azure-service-bus-management/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/azure-service-bus-management-connector-studio.adoc, before:

= Use Studio to Configure Azure Service Bus Management 1.0 - Mule 4

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-input-source,Configure an input source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.
. <<configure-other-fields,Configure the other connector fields>>.

When you run the connector, you can view the app log. For information, see <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>. 

If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the xref:azure-service-bus-management-connector-reference.adoc[Azure Service Bus Management Reference].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.


[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add Azure Service Bus Management to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type `azure service bus management` in the search field.
. Click *Azure Service Bus Management* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure an Input Source

An input source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these input sources to use with Azure Service Bus Management:

* `HTTP Listener`, which initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* `Scheduler`, which initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure `HTTP Listener`, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP* > *Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Path* field.
. Click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of `HTTP Listener` in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify connection information.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify TLS information.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specific server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for Azure Service Bus Management, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Azure Service Bus Management* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas to the right of the input source.


[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials the connector uses to access the target Azure Service Bus Management system. Azure Service Bus Management supports SAS (Shared Access signature) authentication.

To configure the global element for Azure Service Bus Management Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the name of the connector in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. On the *General* tab, configure SAS (shared access signature) authentication by entering values for these fields:
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field |User Action
|Service Namespace |Namespace for the Azure Service Bus Service within your subscription
|Shared Access Key Name | Name of your SAS token
|Shared Access Key | SAS token
|===
+
You can reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders (recommended), or you can enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties. For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see
xref:connectors::introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration] and xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors].
+
The following screenshot shows an example of configuring Shared Access Signature (SAS) authentication:
+
.SAS authentication fields
image::amazon/amazon-dynamodb-basic-authentication.png[To configure authentication, select `Basic` in the *Connection* field and then complete the fields on the *General* tab.]

The *General tab* contains fields related to SAS authentication.

. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[configure-other-fields]]
== Configure the Other Connector Fields

After you configure a global element for Azure Service Bus Management, configure the other required fields for the connector operation.

For example, to create or update a queue or topic, use the `Create or Update Entity` operation and complete these fields:

[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field |Description
|Entity (Queue or Topic) | Enter the name of the entity to create or update.
|If Match |
To update an existing entity, set this header to `*`. Otherwise, leave this field blank.
|Content | Enter the queue description or topic.
|===

[[view-app-log]]
== Viewing the App Log

You can view the app log  as follows:
* If you’re running the app from the Anypoint Platform, the output is visible in the Anypoint Studio console window.
* If you’re running the app using Mule from the command line, the app log is visible in your OS console.
Unless the log file path was customized in the app’s log file (`log4j2.xml`), you can also view the app log in this default location:
`MULE_HOME/logs/<app-name>.log`
For more information about the app log, see xref:mule-runtime::logging-in-mule.adoc[Configuring Logging].

== Next Step

After you configure a global element and connection information, configure the other fields for the connector. See  xref:connectors::azure-service-bus-management-connector-config-topics.adoc[Additional Configuration Information] for more configuration steps.

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]
* <link to the connector Reference Guide>
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

Updates to the Studio and landing page topic

azure-service-bus-management/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/azure-service-bus-management-connector-studio.adoc, after:

= Use Studio to Configure Azure Service Bus Management 1.0 - Mule 4

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-input-source,Configure an input source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.
. <<configure-other-fields,Configure the other connector fields>>.

When you run the connector, you can view the app log. For information, see <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.

If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the xref:azure-service-bus-management-connector-reference.adoc[Azure Service Bus Management Reference].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add Anypoint Connector for Azure Service Management (Azure Service Bus Management Connector) to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type `azure` in the search field.
. Click *Azure Service Bus Management* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure an Input Source

An input source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these input sources to use with Azure Service Bus Management Connector:

* `HTTP Listener`, which initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* `Scheduler`, which initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure `HTTP Listener`, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP* > *Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Path* field.
. Click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of `HTTP Listener` in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify connection information.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify TLS information.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specific server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for Azure Service Bus Management Connector, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Azure Service Bus Management* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas to the right of the input source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials the connector uses to access the target Azure Service Bus instance. Azure Service Bus Management Connector supports SAS (Shared Access signature) authentication.

To configure the global element for Azure Service Bus Management Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the name of the connector in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. On the *General* tab, configure SAS (shared access signature) authentication by entering values for these fields:
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field |User Action
|Service Namespace |Namespace for the Azure Service Bus Service within your subscription
|Shared Access Key Name | Name of your SAS token
|Shared Access Key | SAS token
|===
+
The following screenshot shows an example of configuring Shared Access Signature (SAS) authentication. This screenshot uses property placeholders in place of field values. For information on using property placeholders, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]
+
.SAS authentication fields
image::azure-service-bus-management/azure-sb-mgmt-authentication.png[To configure SAS authentication, complete the fields on the *General* tab.]
+
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[configure-other-fields]]
== Configure the Other Connector Fields

After you configure a global element for Azure Service Bus Management Connector, configure the other required fields for the connector operation.

For example, to create or update a queue or topic, use the `Create or Update Entity` operation and complete these fields:

[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Field |Description
|Entity (Queue or Topic) | Enter the name of the entity to create or update.
|If Match |
To update an existing entity, set this header to `*`. Otherwise, leave this field blank.
|Content | Enter the queue description or topic.
|===

[[view-app-log]]
== Viewing the App Log

You can view the app log  as follows:

* If you’re running the app from the Anypoint Platform, the output is visible in the Anypoint Studio console window.
* If you’re running the app using Mule from the command line, the app log is visible in your OS console.
Unless the log file path was customized in the app’s log file (`log4j2.xml`), you can also view the app log in this default location:
`MULE_HOME/logs/<app-name>.log`
For more information about the app log, see xref:mule-runtime::logging-in-mule.adoc[Configuring Logging].

== Next Step

After you configure a global element and connection information, configure the other fields for the connector. See  xref:connectors::azure-service-bus-management-connector-config-topics.adoc[Additional Configuration Information] for more configuration steps.

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]
* xref:azure-service-bus-management-connector-reference.adoc[Azure Service Bus Management Reference]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
