azure-service-bus-management/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/azure-service-bus-management-connector-examples.adoc, before:

= Azure Service Bus Management 1.0 Examples - Mule 4

These examples use variables for some field values. You can either:

* Replace the variables with their values in the code
* Provide the values for each variable in a properties file and then refer to that file from the connector configuration
+
For more information about using a properties file, see xref:mule-runtime::mule-app-properties-to-configure.adoc[Configuring Property Placeholders]

== Get Queue Information Example

This example shows how to get information about a particular queue in the Azure service bus instance. The following screenshot shows the Anypoint Studio flow for this example:

image::flow-queue.png[]

. Create a new Mule project in Studio.
. In the Mule Palette view, search for *HTTP* and select the *Listener* operation:
. Drag the *Listener* operation onto the Studio canvas.
. In the *Listener* configuration, click *+* next to the *Connector configuration* field to add a global element.
. Accept the defaults.
. Set the *Path* field to `/queue`.

=== Add and Configure the Get Entity Operation

The *Get Entity* operation returns information about the specified queue, including configuration information and information about the metadata:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for *azure* and select the Azure Service Bus Management connector *Get Entity* operation.
. Drag the *Get Entity* operation onto the Studio canvas, to the right of the *Listener*.
.  In the *Get Entity* configuration, click *+* next to the *Connector configuration* field to add a global element.
. Enter values for the *SMS Namespace*, *Shared Access Key Name*, and *Shared Access Key* fields.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the Azure Service Bus instance.
* If the connection is successful, click *OK* to save the configuration.
* Otherwise, review or correct any incorrect parameters, and test again.
. In the *Entity(Queue or Topic)* field, enter the name of the queue for which you want information.

=== Add a Transform Message Component

The *Transform Message* component formats the data and shows how the metadata is rendered for the output of the *Get Entity* operation:

. In the Mule Palette view, search for *transform*:
. Drag the *Transform Message* component onto the canvas, to the right of the *Get Entity* component.
. In the *Transform Message* configuration, change the display name to `Getting Data`.
. Overlay the brackets in the *Output* section with this XML:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
ns ns0 http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom
ns ns01 http://schemas.microsoft.com/netservices/2010/10/servicebus/connect
---
{
"title": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#title,
"publishedAt": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#published,
"lockDuration": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#LockDuration,
"maxSize": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#MaxSizeInMegabytes,
"requiresDuplicate": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#RequiresDuplicateDetection,
"requiresSession": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#RequiresSession,
"deadLettering": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#DeadLetteringOnMessageExpiration,
"enabledBatched": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#EnableBatchedOperations,
"defaultMTTL": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#DefaultMessageTimeToLive,
"duplicateDetection": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#DuplicateDetectionHistoryTimeWindow,
}
----

=== Add a Logger Component

The Logger component displays the response in the *Mule Console*:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for *logger* and select the *Logger (Core)* component.
. Drag the *Logger (Core)* component onto the Studio canvas, to the right of the *Transform Message* component.
. In the *Message* field of the Logger configuration, enter `#[payload]`.
. Save the project.

=== Run and Test the App

. xxx
. Test the app by navigating to `http://127.0.0.1:8081/queue`

=== XML Code for the Get Queue Example

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<mule xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core" xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
xmlns:azure-service-bus-management="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-management"
xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core" xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-management http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-management/current/mule-azure-service-bus-management.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd">
<azure-service-bus-management:config name="Azure_Service_Bus_Management_Connector_Config" doc:name="Azure Service Bus Management Connector Config"  >
<azure-service-bus-management:shared-access-signature-connection namespace="azure-management-testing" sharedAccessKeyName="RootManageSharedAccessKey" sharedAccessKey="FgBRI++kphTGJcr2OL8G3BLLAdAn3p7newgQ2Ixf7hk="/>
</azure-service-bus-management:config>
<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config" doc:name="HTTP Listener config" >
<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
</http:listener-config>
<flow name="azure-management-flow"  >
<http:listener doc:name="Listener" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="queue"/>
<azure-service-bus-management:get-by-entity doc:name="Get Entity" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Management_Connector_Config" entity="your-queue"/>
<ee:transform doc:name="Getting data"  >
<ee:message >
<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
ns ns0 http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom
ns ns01 http://schemas.microsoft.com/netservices/2010/10/servicebus/connect
---
{
"title": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#title,
"publishedAt": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#published,
"lockDuration": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#LockDuration,
"maxSize": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#MaxSizeInMegabytes,
"requiresDuplicate": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#RequiresDuplicateDetection,
"requiresSession": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#RequiresSession,
"deadLettering": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#DeadLetteringOnMessageExpiration,
"enabledBatched": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#EnableBatchedOperations,
"defaultMTTL": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#DefaultMessageTimeToLive,
"duplicateDetection": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#DuplicateDetectionHistoryTimeWindow,
}]]></ee:set-payload>
</ee:message>
</ee:transform>
<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger"  message="#[payload]"/>
</flow>
----

== Create Topic Example

This example shows how to create a new topic. The following screenshot shows the Anypoint Studio flow for this example:

image::flow-topic.png[]

. Create a new Mule project in Studio.
. In the Mule Palette view, search for *HTTP* and select the *Listener* operation:
. Drag the *Listener* operation onto the canvas.
. In the *Listener* configuration, click *+* next to the *Connector configuration* field to add a global element.
. Set the *Host* field to 0.0.0.0, the *Port* field to `808`, and click *Save*.
. Set the *Path* field to `/topic`.

=== Add and Configure the Create or Update Entity Operation

The *Create or Update Entity Operation* enables you to create the topic:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for *azure service bus management* and select the *Create or Update Entity* operation.
. Drag the *Create or Update Entity* operation onto the canvas, to the right of *Listener*.
. In the *Create or Update Entity* configuration, click *+* next to the *Connector configuration* field to add a global element.
. Enter values for the *SMS Namespace*, *Shared Access Key Name*, and *Shared Access Key* fields.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the Azure Service Bus instance.
* If the connection is successful, click *OK* to save the configuration.
* Otherwise, review or correct any incorrect parameters, and test again.
. In the *Entity(Queue or Topic)* field, enter the name of the queue for which you want information.

=== Add a Transform Message Component

The *Transform Message* component formats the data and shows how the metadata is rendered for the output of the *Get Entity* operation:

. In the Mule Palette view, search for *transform*:
. Drag the *Transform Message* component onto the canvas, to the right of the *Create or Update Entity* component.
. In the *Transform Message* configuration, change the display name to `Getting Data`.
. Overlay the brackets in the *Output* section with this XML:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
ns ns0 http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom
ns ns01 http://schemas.microsoft.com/netservices/2010/10/servicebus/connect
---
{
title: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#title,
publishedAt: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#published,
maxSize: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#MaxSizeInMegabytes,
requiresDuplicate: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#RequiresDuplicateDetection,
enableBatched: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#EnableBatchedOperations,
defaultMTTL: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#DefaultMessageTimeToLive,
duplicateDetection: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#DuplicateDetectionHistoryTimeWindow,
}
----

=== Add a Logger Component

The Logger component displays the new topic in the *Mule Console*:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for *logger* and select the *Logger (Core)* component.
. Drag the *Logger (Core)* component onto the Studio canvas, to the right of the *Transform Message* component.
. In the *Message* field of the Logger configuration, enter `#[payload]`.
. Save the project.

=== XML for the Create Topic Example

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<mule xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core" xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
xmlns:azure-service-bus-management="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-management"
xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core" xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-management http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-management/current/mule-azure-service-bus-management.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd">
<azure-service-bus-management:config name="Azure_Service_Bus_Management_Connector_Config" doc:name="Azure Service Bus Management Connector Config" doc:id="a59bdeee-75d3-4708-b3e1-923189366fcf" >
<azure-service-bus-management:shared-access-signature-connection namespace="azure-management-testing" sharedAccessKeyName="RootManageSharedAccessKey" sharedAccessKey="FgBRI++kphTGJcr2OL8G3BLLAdAn3p7newgQ2Ixf7hk="/>
</azure-service-bus-management:config>
<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config" doc:name="HTTP Listener config" doc:id="d3ad3e78-e927-47fd-9aa9-997c5d3cb5ff" >
<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
</http:listener-config>
<flow name="azure-management-flow" doc:id="2ca28772-b9ce-44ec-a0d3-68568789cb8e" >
<http:listener doc:name="Listener" doc:id="60a97736-63e4-42bb-8487-e656cad985d6" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="topic"/>
<azure-service-bus-management:update-by-entity doc:name="Create or Update Entity" doc:id="b7bda909-831f-4e05-b4da-810adb8b541d" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Management_Connector_Config" entity="topicName">
<azure-service-bus-management:content ><![CDATA[#['<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<entry xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">
<content type="application/xml">
<TopicDescription xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/netservices/2010/10/servicebus/connect">
<MaxSizeInMegabytes>1024</MaxSizeInMegabytes>
<RequiresDuplicateDetection>false</RequiresDuplicateDetection>
<EnableBatchedOperations>false</EnableBatchedOperations>
<DefaultMessageTimeToLive>PT256204778H48M5S</DefaultMessageTimeToLive>
<DuplicateDetectionHistoryTimeWindow>PT10M</DuplicateDetectionHistoryTimeWindow>
</TopicDescription>
</content>
</entry>']]]></azure-service-bus-management:content>
</azure-service-bus-management:update-by-entity>
<ee:transform doc:name="Getting data" doc:id="67b79a1a-2eec-4ed5-a160-c44b14da829b" >
<ee:message >
<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
ns ns0 http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom
ns ns01 http://schemas.microsoft.com/netservices/2010/10/servicebus/connect
---
{
title: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#title,
publishedAt: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#published,
maxSize: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#MaxSizeInMegabytes,
requiresDuplicate: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#RequiresDuplicateDetection,
enableBatched: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#EnableBatchedOperations,
defaultMTTL: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#DefaultMessageTimeToLive,
duplicateDetection: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#DuplicateDetectionHistoryTimeWindow,
}]]></ee:set-payload>
</ee:message>
</ee:transform>
<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" doc:id="577d2989-1b0b-4c95-a16b-3cce4b4ccaca" message="#[payload]"/>
</flow>
</mule>
----

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

Added graphics to the examples topic

azure-service-bus-management/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/azure-service-bus-management-connector-examples.adoc, after:

= Azure Service Bus Management 1.0 Examples - Mule 4

The examples in this section show how to get information about Azure Service Bus queues and how to create an Azure Service Bus topic.
These examples use variables for some field values. You can either:

* Replace the variables with their values in the code
* Provide the values for each variable in a properties file and then refer to that file from the connector configuration
+
For more information about using a properties file, see xref:mule-runtime::mule-app-properties-to-configure.adoc[Configuring Property Placeholders]

== Get Queue Information Example

This example shows how to get information about a particular queue in the Azure service bus instance. The following screenshot shows the Anypoint Studio app flow for this example:

.App flow for the Get Queue Information example
image::azure-sb-mgt-flow-get-queue.png[This app flow shows the components used in the get Get Queue Information example]

. Create a new Mule project in Studio.
. In the Mule Palette view, search for *HTTP* and select the *Listener* operation:
. Drag the *Listener* operation onto the Studio canvas.
. In the *Listener* configuration, click *+* next to the *Connector configuration* field to add a global element.
. Accept the defaults.
. Set the *Path* field to `/queue`.

=== Add and Configure the Get Entity Operation

The *Get Entity* operation returns information about the specified queue, including configuration information and information about the metadata:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for *azure* and select the Azure Service Bus Management connector *Get Entity* operation.
. Drag the *Get Entity* operation onto the Studio canvas, to the right of the *Listener*.
.  In the *Get Entity* configuration, click *+* next to the *Connector configuration* field to add a global element.
. Enter values for the *SMS Namespace*, *Shared Access Key Name*, and *Shared Access Key* fields.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the Azure Service Bus instance.
* If the connection is successful, click *OK* to save the configuration.
* Otherwise, review or correct any incorrect parameters, and test again.
. In the *Entity(Queue or Topic)* field, enter the name of the queue for which you want information.

=== Add a Transform Message Component

The *Transform Message* component formats the data and shows how the metadata is rendered for the output of the *Get Entity* operation:

. In the Mule Palette view, search for *transform*:
. Drag the *Transform Message* component onto the canvas, to the right of the *Get Entity* component.
. In the *Transform Message* configuration, change the display name to `Getting Data`.
. Overlay the brackets in the *Output* section with this XML:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
ns ns0 http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom
ns ns01 http://schemas.microsoft.com/netservices/2010/10/servicebus/connect
---
{
"title": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#title,
"publishedAt": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#published,
"lockDuration": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#LockDuration,
"maxSize": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#MaxSizeInMegabytes,
"requiresDuplicate": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#RequiresDuplicateDetection,
"requiresSession": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#RequiresSession,
"deadLettering": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#DeadLetteringOnMessageExpiration,
"enabledBatched": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#EnableBatchedOperations,
"defaultMTTL": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#DefaultMessageTimeToLive,
"duplicateDetection": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#DuplicateDetectionHistoryTimeWindow,
}
----

=== Add a Logger Component

The Logger component displays the response in the *Mule Console*:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for *logger* and select the *Logger (Core)* component.
. Drag the *Logger (Core)* component onto the Studio canvas, to the right of the *Transform Message* component.
. In the *Message* field of the Logger configuration, enter `#[payload]`.
. Save the project.
. Test the app by navigating to `http://127.0.0.1:8081/queue`.

=== XML Code for the Get Queue Example

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<mule xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core" xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
xmlns:azure-service-bus-management="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-management"
xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core" xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-management http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-management/current/mule-azure-service-bus-management.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd">
<azure-service-bus-management:config name="Azure_Service_Bus_Management_Connector_Config" doc:name="Azure Service Bus Management Connector Config"  >
<azure-service-bus-management:shared-access-signature-connection namespace="azure-management-testing" sharedAccessKeyName="RootManageSharedAccessKey" sharedAccessKey="FgBRI++kphTGJcr2OL8G3BLLAdAn3p7newgQ2Ixf7hk="/>
</azure-service-bus-management:config>
<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config" doc:name="HTTP Listener config" >
<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
</http:listener-config>
<flow name="azure-management-flow"  >
<http:listener doc:name="Listener" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="queue"/>
<azure-service-bus-management:get-by-entity doc:name="Get Entity" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Management_Connector_Config" entity="your-queue"/>
<ee:transform doc:name="Getting data"  >
<ee:message >
<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
ns ns0 http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom
ns ns01 http://schemas.microsoft.com/netservices/2010/10/servicebus/connect
---
{
"title": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#title,
"publishedAt": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#published,
"lockDuration": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#LockDuration,
"maxSize": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#MaxSizeInMegabytes,
"requiresDuplicate": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#RequiresDuplicateDetection,
"requiresSession": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#RequiresSession,
"deadLettering": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#DeadLetteringOnMessageExpiration,
"enabledBatched": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#EnableBatchedOperations,
"defaultMTTL": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#DefaultMessageTimeToLive,
"duplicateDetection": payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#QueueDescription.ns01#DuplicateDetectionHistoryTimeWindow,
}]]></ee:set-payload>
</ee:message>
</ee:transform>
<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger"  message="#[payload]"/>
</flow>
</mule>
----

== Create Topic Example

This example shows how to create a new topic for the Azure Service Bus instance. The following screenshot shows the Anypoint Studio flow for this example:

.App flow for the Create Topic example
image::azure-sb-mgt-flow-create-topic.png[This app flow shows the components used in the Create Topic example]
. Create a new Mule project in Studio.
. In the Mule Palette view, search for *HTTP* and select the *Listener* operation:
. Drag the *Listener* operation onto the canvas.
. In the *Listener* configuration, click *+* next to the *Connector configuration* field to add a global element.
. Set the *Host* field to 0.0.0.0, the *Port* field to `808`, and click *Save*.
. Set the *Path* field to `/topic`.

=== Add and Configure the Create or Update Entity Operation

The *Create or Update Entity Operation* enables you to create the topic:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for *azure service bus management* and select the *Create or Update Entity* operation.
. Drag the *Create or Update Entity* operation onto the canvas, to the right of *Listener*.
. In the *Create or Update Entity* configuration, click *+* next to the *Connector configuration* field to add a global element.
. Enter values for the *SMS Namespace*, *Shared Access Key Name*, and *Shared Access Key* fields.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the Azure Service Bus instance.
* If the connection is successful, click *OK* to save the configuration.
* Otherwise, review or correct any incorrect parameters, and test again.
. In the *Entity(Queue or Topic)* field, enter the name of the queue for which you want information.

=== Add a Transform Message Component

The *Transform Message* component formats the data and shows how the metadata is rendered for the output of the *Get Entity* operation:

. In the Mule Palette view, search for *transform*:
. Drag the *Transform Message* component onto the canvas, to the right of the *Create or Update Entity* component.
. In the *Transform Message* configuration, change the display name to `Getting Data`.
. Overlay the brackets in the *Output* section with this XML:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json
ns ns0 http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom
ns ns01 http://schemas.microsoft.com/netservices/2010/10/servicebus/connect
---
{
title: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#title,
publishedAt: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#published,
maxSize: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#MaxSizeInMegabytes,
requiresDuplicate: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#RequiresDuplicateDetection,
enableBatched: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#EnableBatchedOperations,
defaultMTTL: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#DefaultMessageTimeToLive,
duplicateDetection: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#DuplicateDetectionHistoryTimeWindow,
}
----

=== Add a Logger Component

The Logger component displays the new topic in the *Mule Console*:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, search for *logger* and select the *Logger (Core)* component.
. Drag the *Logger (Core)* component onto the Studio canvas, to the right of the *Transform Message* component.
. In the *Message* field of the Logger configuration, enter `#[payload]`.
. Save the project.
. Test the app by navigating to `http://127.0.0.1:8081/topic`.

=== XML for the Create Topic Example

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<mule xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core" xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
xmlns:azure-service-bus-management="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-management"
xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core" xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-management http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/azure-service-bus-management/current/mule-azure-service-bus-management.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd">
<azure-service-bus-management:config name="Azure_Service_Bus_Management_Connector_Config" doc:name="Azure Service Bus Management Connector Config" doc:id="a59bdeee-75d3-4708-b3e1-923189366fcf" >
<azure-service-bus-management:shared-access-signature-connection namespace="azure-management-testing" sharedAccessKeyName="RootManageSharedAccessKey" sharedAccessKey="FgBRI++kphTGJcr2OL8G3BLLAdAn3p7newgQ2Ixf7hk="/>
</azure-service-bus-management:config>
<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config" doc:name="HTTP Listener config" doc:id="d3ad3e78-e927-47fd-9aa9-997c5d3cb5ff" >
<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0" port="8081" />
</http:listener-config>
<flow name="azure-management-flow" doc:id="2ca28772-b9ce-44ec-a0d3-68568789cb8e" >
<http:listener doc:name="Listener" doc:id="60a97736-63e4-42bb-8487-e656cad985d6" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="topic"/>
<azure-service-bus-management:update-by-entity doc:name="Create or Update Entity" doc:id="b7bda909-831f-4e05-b4da-810adb8b541d" config-ref="Azure_Service_Bus_Management_Connector_Config" entity="topicName">
<azure-service-bus-management:content ><![CDATA[#['<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<entry xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">
<content type="application/xml">
<TopicDescription xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/netservices/2010/10/servicebus/connect">
<MaxSizeInMegabytes>1024</MaxSizeInMegabytes>
<RequiresDuplicateDetection>false</RequiresDuplicateDetection>
<EnableBatchedOperations>false</EnableBatchedOperations>
<DefaultMessageTimeToLive>PT256204778H48M5S</DefaultMessageTimeToLive>
<DuplicateDetectionHistoryTimeWindow>PT10M</DuplicateDetectionHistoryTimeWindow>
</TopicDescription>
</content>
</entry>']]]></azure-service-bus-management:content>
</azure-service-bus-management:update-by-entity>
<ee:transform doc:name="Getting data" doc:id="67b79a1a-2eec-4ed5-a160-c44b14da829b" >
<ee:message >
<ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
ns ns0 http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom
ns ns01 http://schemas.microsoft.com/netservices/2010/10/servicebus/connect
---
{
title: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#title,
publishedAt: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#published,
maxSize: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#MaxSizeInMegabytes,
requiresDuplicate: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#RequiresDuplicateDetection,
enableBatched: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#EnableBatchedOperations,
defaultMTTL: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#DefaultMessageTimeToLive,
duplicateDetection: payload.ns0#entry.ns0#content.ns01#TopicDescription.ns01#DuplicateDetectionHistoryTimeWindow,
}]]></ee:set-payload>
</ee:message>
</ee:transform>
<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" doc:id="577d2989-1b0b-4c95-a16b-3cce4b4ccaca" message="#[payload]"/>
</flow>
</mule>
----

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
