azure-data-lake/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, before:

= Azure Data Lake Storage Connector - Mule 4

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

Anypoint Connector for Azure Data Lake Storage Gen 2 (Azure Data Lake Storage Connector) provides access to standard Azure Data Lake Storage Gen 2 operations using Anypoint Platform. 

Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 is a scalable data storage service built by Microsoft Azure and designed for big data analytics. Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 is built on top of Azure Blob Storage and provides the data organization and security semantics of Azure Data Lake Gen1 along with the cost and reliability benefits of Azure Blob Storage.

For information about compatibility and fixed issues, see the Azure Data Lake Storage Connector Release Notes. 

== Prerequisites

To use this connector, you must be familiar with:

* Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 API
* Anypoint Connectors
* Mule runtime engine (Mule)
* Elements and global elements in a Mule flow
* How to create a Mule app using Anypoint Studio

Before creating an app, you must have access to:

* The Azure Data Lake Storage target resource
* Anypoint Platform
* Anypoint Studio version 7.1 or later


== Common Use Cases for the Connector

Common use cases for Azure Data Lake Storage Connector include the following: 

* Create, read, update, and delete files in an existing Azure Data Lake Storage file system.
* Create, rename, and delete directories from the Azure Data Lake Storage file system.
* Rename existing files. 
* Append the contents of a file and flush the file's contents.
* Obtain properties and status for a file or directory.
* Obtain the ACL (access control list) of a file or directory.
* Get a list of all the available paths in the Azure Data Lake Storage file system.

For examples of some of these common use cases, see xref:azure-data-lake-connector-examples.adoc[Examples].

== Audience

* New users, read:
** xref:azure-data-lake-connector-studio.adoc[Studio Configuration] 
** xref:azure-data-lake-connector-examples.adoc[Examples], with use case information for the connector
* Advanced users, read:
** xref:azure-data-lake-connector-xml-maven.adoc[XML and Maven Support]
** xref:azure-data-lake-connector-examples.adoc[Examples], with use case information for the connector

== Connection Types

Azure Data Lake Storage Connector connections use the following authentication types:

* Azure Active Directory OAuth 2.0 +
Delegates user authentication to the service hosting the user account
* Shared Access Signature +
Uses information contained in the SAS token to authorize the client request
* Shared Key Connection +
Uses a shared access key that is generated by Azure and used for the storage account

== Next Step

After you complete the prerequisites, you are ready to create an app and configure the connector using xref:azure-data-lake-connector-studio.adoc[Anypoint Studio].

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:connectors::introduction/intro-use-exchange.adoc[Use Exchange to Discover Connectors, Templates, and Examples]
* xref:azure-data-lake-connector-reference.adoc[Azure Data Lake Storage Connector Reference]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

CONN-7202 | Added section for japanese characters support

azure-data-lake/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, after:

= Azure Data Lake Storage Connector - Mule 4

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

Anypoint Connector for Azure Data Lake Storage Gen 2 (Azure Data Lake Storage Connector) provides access to standard Azure Data Lake Storage Gen 2 operations using Anypoint Platform. 

Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 is a scalable data storage service built by Microsoft Azure and designed for big data analytics. Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 is built on top of Azure Blob Storage and provides the data organization and security semantics of Azure Data Lake Gen1 along with the cost and reliability benefits of Azure Blob Storage.

For information about compatibility and fixed issues, see the Azure Data Lake Storage Connector Release Notes. 

== Prerequisites

To use this connector, you must be familiar with:

* Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 API
* Anypoint Connectors
* Mule runtime engine (Mule)
* Elements and global elements in a Mule flow
* How to create a Mule app using Anypoint Studio

Before creating an app, you must have access to:

* The Azure Data Lake Storage target resource
* Anypoint Platform
* Anypoint Studio version 7.1 or later


== Common Use Cases for the Connector

Common use cases for Azure Data Lake Storage Connector include the following: 

* Create, read, update, and delete files in an existing Azure Data Lake Storage file system.
* Create, rename, and delete directories from the Azure Data Lake Storage file system.
* Rename existing files. 
* Append the contents of a file and flush the file's contents.
* Obtain properties and status for a file or directory.
* Obtain the ACL (access control list) of a file or directory.
* Get a list of all the available paths in the Azure Data Lake Storage file system.

For examples of some of these common use cases, see xref:azure-data-lake-connector-examples.adoc[Examples].

== Audience

* New users, read:
** xref:azure-data-lake-connector-studio.adoc[Studio Configuration] 
** xref:azure-data-lake-connector-examples.adoc[Examples], with use case information for the connector
* Advanced users, read:
** xref:azure-data-lake-connector-xml-maven.adoc[XML and Maven Support]
** xref:azure-data-lake-connector-examples.adoc[Examples], with use case information for the connector

== Connection Types

Azure Data Lake Storage Connector connections use the following authentication types:

* Azure Active Directory OAuth 2.0 +
Delegates user authentication to the service hosting the user account
* Shared Access Signature +
Uses information contained in the SAS token to authorize the client request
* Shared Key Connection +
Uses a shared access key that is generated by Azure and used for the storage account

== Japanese Support

Japanese characters are supported for Path names, but it is required to encode Japanese characters into valid UTF8 encoded/escaped URI characters.
If necessary, Dataweave 2 provides a function to handle this requirement, see xref:https://docs.mulesoft.com/mule-runtime/4.3/dw-url-functions-encodeurim[encodeURI(String)]

File content operation payloads (as adding content to a file) also support Japanese characters, and do not require any encoding.

The connector does not support Japanese for File system names, as this is not supported by Azure Data Lake itself.

== Next Step

After you complete the prerequisites, you are ready to create an app and configure the connector using xref:azure-data-lake-connector-studio.adoc[Anypoint Studio].

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:connectors::introduction/intro-use-exchange.adoc[Use Exchange to Discover Connectors, Templates, and Examples]
* xref:azure-data-lake-connector-reference.adoc[Azure Data Lake Storage Connector Reference]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
