hl7/4.2/modules/ROOT/pages/hl7-connector-reference.adoc, before:

= HL7 EDI Connector Reference
:page-aliases: connectors::hl7/hl7-connector-reference.adoc

== Configurations
---
[[config]]
=== Config


==== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
|Name | String | The name for this configuration. Connectors reference the configuration with this name. | |x
| Connection a| Connection
 | The connection types that can be provided to this configuration. | |x
| Expiration Policy a| ExpirationPolicy |  Configures the minimum amount of time that a dynamic configuration instance can remain idle before the runtime considers it eligible for expiration. This does not mean that the platform will expire the instance at the exact moment that it becomes eligible. The runtime will actually purge the instances when it sees fit. |  |
| Mule Application Namespace ID (MSH-3-1/MSH-5-1) a| String |  Application Namespace ID for Mule in message header (MSH segment). If this value is set, it effects both send and receive message handling. On the receive side, the MSH Receiving Application identification Namespace ID must match this value. On the send side, this value is used as the MSH Sending Application identification Namespace ID unless overridden in either the send configuration or the message parameters. |  |
| Mule Application Universal ID (MSH-3-2/MSH-5-2) a| String |  Application Universal ID for Mule in message header (MSH segment). If this value is set, it effects both send and receive message handling. On the receive side, the MSH Receiving Application identification Universal ID must match this value. On the send side, this value is used as the MSH Sending Application identification Universal ID unless overridden in either the send configuration or the message parameters. |  |
| Mule Application Universal ID Type (MSH-3-3/MSH-5-3) a| String |  Application Universal ID Type for Mule in message header (MSH segment). If this value is set, it effects both send and receive message handling. On the receive side, the MSH Receiving Application identification Universal ID Type must match this value. On the send side, this value is used as the MSH Sending Application identification Universal ID Type unless overridden in either the send configuration or the message parameters. |  |
| Partner Application Namespace ID (MSH-3-1/MSH-5-1) a| String |  Application Namespace ID for Partner in message header (MSH segment). If this value is set, it effects both send and receive message handling. On the receive side, the MSH Sending Application identification Namespace ID must match this value. On the send side, this value is used as the MSH Receiving Application identification Namespace ID unless overridden in either the send configuration or the message parameters. |  |
| Partner Application Universal ID (MSH-3-2/MSH-5-2) a| String |  Application Universal ID for Partner in message header (MSH segment). If this value is set, it effects both send and receive message handling. On the receive side, the MSH Sending Application identification Universal ID must match this value. On the send side, this value is used as the MSH Receiving Application identification Universal ID unless overridden in either the send configuration or the message parameters. |  |
| Partner Application Universal ID Type (MSH-3-3/MSH-5-3) a| String |  Application Universal ID Type for Partner in message header (MSH segment). If this value is set, it effects both send and receive message handling. On the receive side, the MSH Sending Application identification Universal ID Type must match this value. On the send side, this value is used as the MSH Receiving Application identification Universal ID Type unless overridden in either the send configuration or the message parameters. |  |
| Schema definitions a| Array of String |  List of paths for schemas to be used by module. The paths may be either for file system or classpath. |  |x
| Event and message to message structure map path a| String |  Path to a YAML file defining the mapping from event code to message code to message structure identifier. If working with multiple message structures this mapping definition supports using MSH-9-1 and MSH-9-2 to determine the message structure when MSH-9-3 is not present in a message. If only a single message structure is present in the schema(s) that message structure is used for parsing all messages, and if MSH-9-3 is present in a message the MSH-9-1 and MSH-9-2 values are ignored. |  |
| HL7 Message character encoding a| Enumeration, one of:

** ASCII
** BIG_5
** EUC_KR
** EUC_TW
** GB_18030
** ISO_8859_1
** ISO_8859_15
** ISO_8859_2
** ISO_8859_3
** ISO_8859_4
** ISO_8859_5
** ISO_8859_6
** ISO_8859_7
** ISO_8859_8
** ISO_8859_9
** JIS0208
** JIS_X0201
** JIS_X0212
** UTF_16
** UTF_32
** UTF_8
|  Character encoding for HL7 messages. This is used as the default for receive messages, when MSH-18 is not present. It is also used as the default for send messages, when MSH-18 is not present in the send message data. |  ASCII |
| Disable numeric prefixes for data keys a| Boolean |  Use segment and group identifiers directly as keys in data, rather than prefixing with position values. |  true |
| Required processing ID a| Enumeration, one of:

** DEBUGGING
** PRODUCTION
** TRAINING |  Value to match for MSH-11-1 processing ID. If set, only messages with the specified processing ID will be accepted for processing; messages with other processing ID values, or with no processing ID specified, will be rejected with an exception. |  |
| Pattern for generic extension segment names a| String |  Java regular pattern for segment names to be treated as generic extension segments. If specified, segment names matching this pattern are allowed anywhere in the message and are converted to maps of string values for elements and composites. |  |
| Fail when required value missing a| Boolean |  Fail when a required value is missing flag. If true, a message with this error is rejected; if false, the value is ignored and the message is not rejected. In either case the error is logged and reported in an ERR segment. |  false |
| Fail when value length outside allowed range a| Boolean |  Fail when receive value length outside allowed range flag. If true, a message with this error is rejected; if false, the value is used anyway and the message is not rejected. In either case the error is logged and reported in an ERR segment. |  false |
| Fail when invalid character in value a| Boolean |  Fail when receive value contains invalid characters flag. If true, a message with this error is rejected; if false, the character is either passed through or substituted and the message is not rejected. In either case the error is reported in an ERR segment. |  false |
| Fail when too many repeats of value a| Boolean |  Fail when receive value is repeated too many times. If true, a message with this error is rejected; if false, the value is accepted and the message is not rejected. In either case the error is reported in an ERR segment. |  false |
| Fail when unknown segment in message a| Boolean |  Fail when an unknown segment is present in a message. If true, a message with this error is rejected; if false, the segment is ignored and the message is not rejected. In either case the error is reported in an ERR segment. |  false |
| Fail when segment out of order in message set a| Boolean |  Fail when a segment is out of order in a message set. If true, a message with this error is rejected; if false and the segment can be reordered the message is not rejected. In either case the error is reported in an ERR segment. |  false |
| Fail when unused segment included in message set a| Boolean |  Fail when a segment marked as Unused is included in a message set. If true, a message with this error is rejected; if false, the message is not rejected and the unused segment is ignored. In either case the error is reported in an ERR segment. |  false |
| Fail when too many repeats of segment a| Boolean |  Fail when a segment occurs too many times in a message set. If true, a message with this error is rejected; if false, the message is not rejected. In either case the error is reported in an ERR segment. |  false |
|===


[[config_connection]]
== Connection Type


=== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Reconnection a| Reconnection |  When the application is deployed, a connectivity test is performed on all connectors. If set to true, deployment fails if the test doesn't pass after exhausting the associated reconnection strategy. |  |
|===

=== Associated Operations

* read
* write

== Operations

[[read]]
== Read

`<hl7:read>`


=== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Configuration | String | The name of the configuration to use. | |x
| Read Content a| Binary |  |  `#[payload]` |
| Target Variable a| String |  The name of a variable to store the output of the operation. |  |
| Target Value a| String |  An expression that evaluates the operation's output and stores the outcome of that expression in the target variable. |  `#[payload]` |
| Reconnection Strategy a| * reconnect
* reconnect-forever |  A retry strategy in case of connectivity errors. |  |
|===

=== Output

[cols=".^50%,.^50%"]
|===
| Type a| Object
|===

=== For Configurations

* config

=== Throws

* HL7:RETRY_EXHAUSTED
* HL7:UNKNOWN
* HL7:PARSE
* HL7:SCHEMA
* HL7:CONNECTIVITY
* HL7:WRITE


[[write]]
== Write

`<hl7:write>`


=== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Configuration | String | The name of the configuration to use. | |x
| Write Content a| Object |  |  `#[payload]` |
| Streaming Strategy a| * repeatable-in-memory-stream
* repeatable-file-store-stream
* non-repeatable-stream |  Configure to use repeatable streams and their behavior. |  |
| Target Variable a| String |  The name of a variable that stores the output of the operation. |  |
| Target Value a| String |  An expression that evaluates the operation's output and stores the outcome of that expression in the target variable. |  `#[payload]` |
| Reconnection Strategy a| * reconnect
* reconnect-forever |  A retry strategy in case of connectivity errors. |  |
|===

=== Output

[cols=".^50%,.^50%"]
|===
| Type a| Binary
|===

=== For Configurations

* config

=== Throws

* HL7:RETRY_EXHAUSTED
* HL7:UNKNOWN
* HL7:PARSE
* HL7:SCHEMA
* HL7:CONNECTIVITY
* HL7:WRITE



== Types

[[Reconnection]]
=== Reconnection

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Fails Deployment a| Boolean | When the application is deployed, a connectivity test is performed on all connectors. If set to true, deployment fails if the test doesn't pass after exhausting the associated reconnection strategy. |  |
| Reconnection Strategy a| * reconnect
* reconnect-forever | The reconnection strategy to use. |  |
|===

[[reconnect]]
=== Reconnect

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Frequency a| Number | How often in milliseconds to reconnect. |  |
| Count a| Number | How many reconnection attempts to make. |  |
|===

[[reconnect-forever]]
=== Reconnect Forever

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Frequency a| Number | How often in milliseconds to reconnect. |  |
|===

[[ExpirationPolicy]]
=== Expiration Policy

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Max Idle Time a| Number | A scalar time value for the maximum amount of time a dynamic configuration instance should be allowed to be idle before it's considered eligible for expiration. |  |
| Time Unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** NANOSECONDS
** MICROSECONDS
** MILLISECONDS
** SECONDS
** MINUTES
** HOURS
** DAYS | A time unit that qualifies the maxIdleTime attribute |  |
|===

[[repeatable-in-memory-stream]]
=== Repeatable In Memory Stream

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Initial Buffer Size a| Number | The amount of memory to allocate to consume the stream and provide random access to it. If the stream contains more data than can fit into this buffer, the buffer expands according to the bufferSizeIncrement attribute, with an upper limit of maxInMemorySize. |  |
| Buffer Size Increment a| Number | How much the buffer size expands if it exceeds its initial size. Setting a value of zero or lower means do not expand the buffer, and if the buffer gets full, raise a STREAM_MAXIMUM_SIZE_EXCEEDED error. |  |
| Max Buffer Size a| Number | The maximum amount of memory to use. If more memory is needed, the STREAM_MAXIMUM_SIZE_EXCEEDED error occurs. A value lower or equal to zero means no limit. |  |
| Buffer Unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** BYTE
** KB
** MB
** GB | The unit in which all these attributes are expressed |  |
|===

[[repeatable-file-store-stream]]
=== Repeatable File Store Stream

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Max In Memory Size a| Number | Defines the maximum memory that the stream should use to keep data in memory. If more than that is consumed then it starts to buffer the content on disk. |  |
| Buffer Unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** BYTE
** KB
** MB
** GB | The unit in which maxInMemorySize is expressed |  |
|===

== See Also

* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

Added new segment terminator field for 4.2

hl7/4.2/modules/ROOT/pages/hl7-connector-reference.adoc, after:

= HL7 EDI Connector 4.2 Reference
:page-aliases: connectors::hl7/hl7-connector-reference.adoc

== Configurations
---
[[config]]
=== Config


==== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
|Name | String | The name for this configuration. Connectors reference the configuration with this name. | |x
| Connection a| Connection
 | The connection types that can be provided to this configuration. | |x
| Expiration Policy a| ExpirationPolicy |  Configures the minimum amount of time that a dynamic configuration instance can remain idle before the runtime considers it eligible for expiration. This does not mean that the platform will expire the instance at the exact moment that it becomes eligible. The runtime will actually purge the instances when it sees fit. |  |
| Mule Application Namespace ID (MSH-3-1/MSH-5-1) a| String |  Application Namespace ID for Mule in message header (MSH segment). If this value is set, it effects both send and receive message handling. On the receive side, the MSH Receiving Application identification Namespace ID must match this value. On the send side, this value is used as the MSH Sending Application identification Namespace ID unless overridden in either the send configuration or the message parameters. |  |
| Mule Application Universal ID (MSH-3-2/MSH-5-2) a| String |  Application Universal ID for Mule in message header (MSH segment). If this value is set, it effects both send and receive message handling. On the receive side, the MSH Receiving Application identification Universal ID must match this value. On the send side, this value is used as the MSH Sending Application identification Universal ID unless overridden in either the send configuration or the message parameters. |  |
| Mule Application Universal ID Type (MSH-3-3/MSH-5-3) a| String |  Application Universal ID Type for Mule in message header (MSH segment). If this value is set, it effects both send and receive message handling. On the receive side, the MSH Receiving Application identification Universal ID Type must match this value. On the send side, this value is used as the MSH Sending Application identification Universal ID Type unless overridden in either the send configuration or the message parameters. |  |
| Partner Application Namespace ID (MSH-3-1/MSH-5-1) a| String |  Application Namespace ID for Partner in message header (MSH segment). If this value is set, it effects both send and receive message handling. On the receive side, the MSH Sending Application identification Namespace ID must match this value. On the send side, this value is used as the MSH Receiving Application identification Namespace ID unless overridden in either the send configuration or the message parameters. |  |
| Partner Application Universal ID (MSH-3-2/MSH-5-2) a| String |  Application Universal ID for Partner in message header (MSH segment). If this value is set, it effects both send and receive message handling. On the receive side, the MSH Sending Application identification Universal ID must match this value. On the send side, this value is used as the MSH Receiving Application identification Universal ID unless overridden in either the send configuration or the message parameters. |  |
| Partner Application Universal ID Type (MSH-3-3/MSH-5-3) a| String |  Application Universal ID Type for Partner in message header (MSH segment). If this value is set, it effects both send and receive message handling. On the receive side, the MSH Sending Application identification Universal ID Type must match this value. On the send side, this value is used as the MSH Receiving Application identification Universal ID Type unless overridden in either the send configuration or the message parameters. |  |
| Schema definitions a| Array of String |  List of paths for schemas to be used by module. The paths may be either for file system or classpath. |  |x
| Event and message to message structure map path a| String |  Path to a YAML file defining the mapping from event code to message code to message structure identifier. If working with multiple message structures this mapping definition supports using MSH-9-1 and MSH-9-2 to determine the message structure when MSH-9-3 is not present in a message. If only a single message structure is present in the schema(s) that message structure is used for parsing all messages, and if MSH-9-3 is present in a message the MSH-9-1 and MSH-9-2 values are ignored. |  |
| HL7 Message character encoding a| Enumeration, one of:

** ASCII
** BIG_5
** EUC_KR
** EUC_TW
** GB_18030
** ISO_8859_1
** ISO_8859_15
** ISO_8859_2
** ISO_8859_3
** ISO_8859_4
** ISO_8859_5
** ISO_8859_6
** ISO_8859_7
** ISO_8859_8
** ISO_8859_9
** JIS0208
** JIS_X0201
** JIS_X0212
** UTF_16
** UTF_32
** UTF_8
|  Character encoding for HL7 messages. This is used as the default for receive messages, when MSH-18 is not present. It is also used as the default for send messages, when MSH-18 is not present in the send message data. |  ASCII |
| Disable numeric prefixes for data keys a| Boolean |  Use segment and group identifiers directly as keys in data, rather than prefixing with position values. |  true |
| Required processing ID a| Enumeration, one of:

** DEBUGGING
** PRODUCTION
** TRAINING |  Value to match for MSH-11-1 processing ID. If set, only messages with the specified processing ID will be accepted for processing; messages with other processing ID values, or with no processing ID specified, will be rejected with an exception. |  |
| Pattern for generic extension segment names a| String |  Java regular pattern for segment names to be treated as generic extension segments. If specified, segment names matching this pattern are allowed anywhere in the message and are converted to maps of string values for elements and composites. |  |
| Fail when required value missing a| Boolean |  Fail when a required value is missing flag. If true, a message with this error is rejected; if false, the value is ignored and the message is not rejected. In either case the error is logged and reported in an ERR segment. |  false |
| Fail when value length outside allowed range a| Boolean |  Fail when receive value length outside allowed range flag. If true, a message with this error is rejected; if false, the value is used anyway and the message is not rejected. In either case the error is logged and reported in an ERR segment. |  false |
| Fail when invalid character in value a| Boolean |  Fail when receive value contains invalid characters flag. If true, a message with this error is rejected; if false, the character is either passed through or substituted and the message is not rejected. In either case the error is reported in an ERR segment. |  false |
| Fail when too many repeats of value a| Boolean |  Fail when receive value is repeated too many times. If true, a message with this error is rejected; if false, the value is accepted and the message is not rejected. In either case the error is reported in an ERR segment. |  false |
| Fail when unknown segment in message a| Boolean |  Fail when an unknown segment is present in a message. If true, a message with this error is rejected; if false, the segment is ignored and the message is not rejected. In either case the error is reported in an ERR segment. |  false |
| Fail when segment out of order in message set a| Boolean |  Fail when a segment is out of order in a message set. If true, a message with this error is rejected; if false and the segment can be reordered the message is not rejected. In either case the error is reported in an ERR segment. |  false |
| Fail when unused segment included in message set a| Boolean |  Fail when a segment marked as Unused is included in a message set. If true, a message with this error is rejected; if false, the message is not rejected and the unused segment is ignored. In either case the error is reported in an ERR segment. |  false |
| Fail when too many repeats of segment a| Boolean |  Fail when a segment occurs too many times in a message set. If true, a message with this error is rejected; if false, the message is not rejected. In either case the error is reported in an ERR segment. |  false |
| HL7 Message segment terminator a| Enumeration, one of:

** CR
** LF |  Value to define the segment terminator |  CR |

|===


[[config_connection]]
== Connection Type


=== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Reconnection a| Reconnection |  When the application is deployed, a connectivity test is performed on all connectors. If set to true, deployment fails if the test doesn't pass after exhausting the associated reconnection strategy. |  |
|===

=== Associated Operations

* read
* write

== Operations

[[read]]
== Read

`<hl7:read>`


=== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Configuration | String | The name of the configuration to use. | |x
| Read Content a| Binary |  |  `#[payload]` |
| Target Variable a| String |  The name of a variable to store the output of the operation. |  |
| Target Value a| String |  An expression that evaluates the operation's output and stores the outcome of that expression in the target variable. |  `#[payload]` |
| Reconnection Strategy a| * reconnect
* reconnect-forever |  A retry strategy in case of connectivity errors. |  |
|===

=== Output

[cols=".^50%,.^50%"]
|===
| Type a| Object
|===

=== For Configurations

* config

=== Throws

* HL7:RETRY_EXHAUSTED
* HL7:UNKNOWN
* HL7:PARSE
* HL7:SCHEMA
* HL7:CONNECTIVITY
* HL7:WRITE


[[write]]
== Write

`<hl7:write>`


=== Parameters

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Configuration | String | The name of the configuration to use. | |x
| Write Content a| Object |  |  `#[payload]` |
| Streaming Strategy a| * repeatable-in-memory-stream
* repeatable-file-store-stream
* non-repeatable-stream |  Configure to use repeatable streams and their behavior. |  |
| Target Variable a| String |  The name of a variable that stores the output of the operation. |  |
| Target Value a| String |  An expression that evaluates the operation's output and stores the outcome of that expression in the target variable. |  `#[payload]` |
| Reconnection Strategy a| * reconnect
* reconnect-forever |  A retry strategy in case of connectivity errors. |  |
|===

=== Output

[cols=".^50%,.^50%"]
|===
| Type a| Binary
|===

=== For Configurations

* config

=== Throws

* HL7:RETRY_EXHAUSTED
* HL7:UNKNOWN
* HL7:PARSE
* HL7:SCHEMA
* HL7:CONNECTIVITY
* HL7:WRITE



== Types

[[Reconnection]]
=== Reconnection

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Fails Deployment a| Boolean | When the application is deployed, a connectivity test is performed on all connectors. If set to true, deployment fails if the test doesn't pass after exhausting the associated reconnection strategy. |  |
| Reconnection Strategy a| * reconnect
* reconnect-forever | The reconnection strategy to use. |  |
|===

[[reconnect]]
=== Reconnect

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Frequency a| Number | How often in milliseconds to reconnect. |  |
| Count a| Number | How many reconnection attempts to make. |  |
|===

[[reconnect-forever]]
=== Reconnect Forever

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Frequency a| Number | How often in milliseconds to reconnect. |  |
|===

[[ExpirationPolicy]]
=== Expiration Policy

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Max Idle Time a| Number | A scalar time value for the maximum amount of time a dynamic configuration instance should be allowed to be idle before it's considered eligible for expiration. |  |
| Time Unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** NANOSECONDS
** MICROSECONDS
** MILLISECONDS
** SECONDS
** MINUTES
** HOURS
** DAYS | A time unit that qualifies the maxIdleTime attribute |  |
|===

[[repeatable-in-memory-stream]]
=== Repeatable In Memory Stream

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Initial Buffer Size a| Number | The amount of memory to allocate to consume the stream and provide random access to it. If the stream contains more data than can fit into this buffer, the buffer expands according to the bufferSizeIncrement attribute, with an upper limit of maxInMemorySize. |  |
| Buffer Size Increment a| Number | How much the buffer size expands if it exceeds its initial size. Setting a value of zero or lower means do not expand the buffer, and if the buffer gets full, raise a STREAM_MAXIMUM_SIZE_EXCEEDED error. |  |
| Max Buffer Size a| Number | The maximum amount of memory to use. If more memory is needed, the STREAM_MAXIMUM_SIZE_EXCEEDED error occurs. A value lower or equal to zero means no limit. |  |
| Buffer Unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** BYTE
** KB
** MB
** GB | The unit in which all these attributes are expressed |  |
|===

[[repeatable-file-store-stream]]
=== Repeatable File Store Stream

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Field | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Max In Memory Size a| Number | Defines the maximum memory that the stream should use to keep data in memory. If more than that is consumed then it starts to buffer the content on disk. |  |
| Buffer Unit a| Enumeration, one of:

** BYTE
** KB
** MB
** GB | The unit in which maxInMemorySize is expressed |  |
|===

== See Also

* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
