websockets/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/websockets-connector-examples.adoc, before:

= WebSockets Examples - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::websockets/websockets-connector-examples.adoc

You can use the WebSockets connector to build an integration system that obtains and broadcasts stock quotes.

This example consists of three apps:

[%header,cols="50a,50a"]
|===
|App |Implementation
|<<Quote Producer App>> |<<Quote Producer Implementation>>
|<<Quote Aggregator App>> |<<Quote Aggregator Implementation>>
|<<Quote Client App>> |<<Quote Client Implementation>>
|===

== Quote Producer App

This app generaates continuous random stock quotes like the following:

[source,json,linenums]
----
{
   "ticker": "CRM",
   "price": 157.6,
   "cur": "USD",
  "timestamp": 1563374475104
}
----

In this example, this is called by the `Quote` type.

This app generates approximately 50 quotes, using at least 5 different tickers (CRM, MELI, GOOG, NFLX, AAPL). The prices are random, so there's no need to get the real ones for this example.

This app also exposes the `+wss://localhost:8080/feed+` endpoint. This TLS secure endpoint accepts one and only one connection. The first client to connect needs to do so successfully. Subsequent clients need to be sent a WSS message with the text "Sorry, spot taken" after which, the connection is dropped.

Each produced quote is sent to the connected feed client.

== Quote Aggregator App

This app connects to the feed endpoint in the prior app and receives all of the quotes. It splits them by ticker and places them in time-based aggregators that flush every 5 seconds.

When the aggregators flush, they output an `Array<Quote>` that needs to be reduced to a single `QuoteSnapshot` type. `QuoteSnapshot` is as follows:

[source,json,linenums]
----
{
   "ticker": "CRM"
   "price": "157.54 USD"
}
----

Such reduction is done by picking the `Quote` with the greatest timestamp and transforming it per the example.

The produced snapshots broadcast to a dynamic list of subscribers. Subscriptions are done through the `+wss://localhost:8082/quotes+` endpoint that this application exposes. Clients can connect to this endpoint, using a query parameter to indicate what stock quotes to follow. For example: `+wss://localhost:8082/quotes?ticker=CRM&ticker=MELI+`

The request should establish a WebSocket that gets the snapshots for the `CRM` and `MELI` tickers. This should be done by subscribing the resulting sockets to the proper socket groups.

== Quote Client App

Finally, the client app should open at least three different WebSockets to the quotes endpoint in the aggregator app. Each of those sockets should be listening for a different set of tickers.

The received `QuoteSnapshots` should be transformed to CSV format and appended to a file.

== Quote Producer Implementation

[source,xml,linenums]
----
	<tls:context name="TLS_Context">
		<tls:key-store path="producer-keystore.jks"
			alias="producerkey" keyPassword="mule123" password="mule123" />
	</tls:context>

	<http:listener-config
		name="HTTP_TLS_Listener_config">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0"
			port="60000" tlsContext="TLS_Context" protocol="HTTPS" />
	</http:listener-config>

	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0"
			port="60001" />
	</http:listener-config>

	<websocket:config name="WebSockets_Config">
		<websocket:connection>
			<websocket:server-settings
				listenerConfig="HTTP_TLS_Listener_config" />
		</websocket:connection>
	</websocket:config>

	<os:object-store name="Object_store" persistent="false" />

	<flow name="stock-quotes-producer-flow">
		<scheduler>
			<scheduling-strategy>
				<fixed-frequency frequency="15" timeUnit="SECONDS" />
			</scheduling-strategy>
		</scheduler>

		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message">
			<ee:message>
				<ee:set-payload>
                    <![CDATA[%dw 2.0
                    var randomStockSelector = randomInt(5)
                    var randomPriceVariation = (randomInt(401) / 100) - 2 as String { format: "#.00"} as Number
                    var baseStockQuotes = [
                        {
                            "ticker": "CRM",
                            "price": 157.6,
                            "cur": "USD"
                        },
                        {
                            "ticker": "MELI",
                            "price": 646.24,
                            "cur": "USD"
                        },
                        {
                            "ticker": "GOOG",
                            "price": 1134.14,
                            "cur": "USD"
                        },
                        {
                            "ticker": "NFLX",
                            "price": 316.53,
                            "cur": "USD"
                        },
                        {
                            "ticker": "AAPL",
                            "price": 208.19,
                            "cur": "USD"
                        }
                    ]
                    var selectedStock = baseStockQuotes[randomStockSelector]
                    output application/json
                    ---
                    {
                        ticker : selectedStock.ticker,
                        price : selectedStock.price + randomPriceVariation,
                        cur : selectedStock.cur,
                        timestamp : now() as Number
                    }]]>
				</ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
		<flow-ref name="send-stock-quote-flow" />
	</flow>

	<flow name="send-stock-quote-flow">
		<os:contains objectStore="Object_store"
			key="webSocketConnectedId" target="webSocketConnected" />
		<choice>
			<when expression="#[vars.webSocketConnected]">
				<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger"
					doc:id="d5b23165-eb47-4caa-b4a8-464c13801932" message="Sending" />
				<os:retrieve objectStore="Object_store"
					target="webSocketConnectedId" key="webSocketConnectedId" />
				<websocket:send
					socketId="#[vars.webSocketConnectedId]"
					config-ref="WebSockets_Config" />
			</when>
		</choice>
	</flow>

	<flow name="on-new-inbound-connection-flow">
		<websocket:on-inbound-connection
			doc:name="On New Inbound Connection" config-ref="WebSockets_Config"
			path="/feed" />
		<os:contains key="webSocketConnectedId"
			target="webSocketConnected" objectStore="Object_store" />
		<choice>
			<when expression="#[vars.webSocketConnected]">
				<os:retrieve key="webSocketConnectedId"
					objectStore="Object_store" target="webSocketConnectedId" />
				<websocket:close-socket
					socketId="#[attributes.socketId]" reason="Sorry, spot taken"
					config-ref="WebSockets_Config" />
			</when>
			<otherwise>
				<os:store key="webSocketConnectedId"
					objectStore="Object_store">
					<os:value><![CDATA[#[attributes.socketId]]]></os:value>
				</os:store>
			</otherwise>
		</choice>
	</flow>

	<flow name="on-new-inbound-message-flow">
		<websocket:inbound-listener
			config-ref="WebSockets_Config" path="/feed" />
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger"
			message="#[output application/json
		---
		{
			info: 'New message received from [' ++ attributes.socketId ++ ']',
			payload : payload
		}]" />
	</flow>

	<flow name="on-socket-closed-flow">
		<websocket:on-socket-closed
			config-ref="WebSockets_Config" path="/feed" />
		<os:retrieve key="webSocketConnectedId"
			objectStore="Object_store" target="webSocketConnectedId" />
		<choice>
			<when
				expression="#[attributes.socketId == vars.webSocketConnectedId]">
				<os:remove key="webSocketConnectedId"
					objectStore="Object_store" />
			</when>
		</choice>
	</flow>

	<flow name="close-websocket-flow">
		<os:contains key="webSocketConnectedId"
			target="webSocketConnected" objectStore="Object_store" />
		<choice>
			<when expression="#[vars.webSocketConnected]">
				<os:retrieve doc:name="Retrieve"
					key="webSocketConnectedId" objectStore="Object_store"
					target="webSocketConnectedId" />
				<websocket:close-socket
					config-ref="WebSockets_Config"
					socketId="#[vars.webSocketConnectedId]"
					reason="Producer app wanted to close the websocket" />
			</when>
		</choice>
	</flow>
----

== Quote Aggregator Implementation

[source,xml,linenums]
----
	<tls:context name="TLS_Context">
		<tls:trust-store path="aggregator-truststore.jks"
			password="mule123" insecure="true" />
	</tls:context>

	<http:listener-config
		name="HTTP_API_Listener_config">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0"
			port="61000" />
	</http:listener-config>

	<websocket:config name="WebSockets_Client_Config">
		<websocket:connection>
			<websocket:client-settings host="0.0.0.0"
				port="60000" protocol="WSS" tlsContext="TLS_Context" />
		</websocket:connection>
	</websocket:config>

	<os:object-store name="Object_store" persistent="false" />

	<tls:context name="TLS_Context_Broadcast">
		<tls:key-store path="broadcast-keystore.jks"
			alias="broadcast" keyPassword="mule123" password="mule123" />
	</tls:context>

	<http:listener-config
		name="HTTP_WebSockets_Listener_Config">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0"
			port="61001" tlsContext="TLS_Context_Broadcast" protocol="HTTPS" />
	</http:listener-config>

	<websocket:config name="WebSockets_Server_Config">
		<websocket:connection>
			<websocket:server-settings
				listenerConfig="HTTP_WebSockets_Listener_Config" />
		</websocket:connection>
	</websocket:config>


	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config"
		doc:name="HTTP Listener config"
		doc:id="f9f68ced-9d25-4975-af23-e6f5c34933c4">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0"
			port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>

	<flow name="broadcasting-stock-quote-snapshot">
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger"
			message="#[output application/json
            ---
            {
                info: 'Broadcasting stock quote reduction',
                payload: payload
            }]" />
	</flow>
	<flow name="producer-app-websocket-open-flow">
        <http:listener doc:name="Listener" doc:id="bc39fe0e-7315-4aa0-8762-104b8ddd38b9" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/connect"/>
		<websocket:open-outbound-socket config-ref="WebSockets_Client_Config" path="/feed"/>
        <logger
		level="INFO"
		message="#['New connection established with [' ++ attributes.socketId ++ ']']" />
        <os:contains key="socketId" objectStore="Object_store" target="webSocketConnected" />
        <choice>
            <when expression="#[vars.webSocketConnected]">
                <logger
			level="INFO"
			message="#['The websocket [' ++ attributes.socketId ++ '] is not saved as there is already one connected']"/>
            </when>
            <otherwise >
                <logger
			level="INFO"
			message="#['Websocket with ID [' ++ attributes.socketId ++ '] is saved for later reference']"/>
                <os:store key="socketId" objectStore="Object_store">
                    <os:value><![CDATA[#[attributes.socketId]]]></os:value>
                </os:store>
            </otherwise>
        </choice>
    </flow>

    <flow name="webs-quote-aggFlow" doc:id="ec4429d0-fc47-472a-bd46-a226be13ed4b" >
		<websocket:on-inbound-connection doc:name="On New Inbound Connection" doc:id="fec6e5f3-2685-4852-8104-d76aa3651107" config-ref="WebSockets_Server_Config" path="/quotes"/>
		<websocket:subscribe-groups doc:name="Subscribe groups" doc:id="5dfa2459-ad20-4f7f-915c-0f76953c7347" config-ref="WebSockets_Server_Config" socketId="#[attributes.socketId]" groups='#[[attributes.headers.groups]]' />
	</flow>
	<flow name="client-app-websocket-inbound-listener-flow">
        <websocket:inbound-listener doc:name="On New Inbound Message" config-ref="WebSockets_Server_Config" path="/quotes" />
        <logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" message="#[output application/json
            ---
            {
                info: 'New message received from [' ++ attributes.socketId ++ ']',
                payload: payload
            }]" />
    </flow>
	<flow name="producer-app-websocket-outbound-listener-flow">
        <websocket:outbound-listener
		config-ref="WebSockets_Client_Config"
		path="/feed"
		outputMimeType="application/json"/>
        <logger level="INFO" message="#[output application/json
            ---
            {
                info: 'New message received from [' ++ attributes.socketId ++ ']',
                payload: payload
            }]" />
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" doc:id="6c3f60f7-d4b2-4ba3-bbb1-3661558d0658" message="#[[payload.ticker]]"/>
		<websocket:broadcast config-ref="WebSockets_Server_Config" path="/quotes" groups="#[[payload.ticker]]"/>
    </flow>

    <flow name="producer-app-websocket-close-flow">
        <os:contains key="socketId" objectStore="Object_store" target="webSocketConnected"/>
        <choice>
            <when expression="#[vars.webSocketConnected]">
                <os:retrieve key="socketId" objectStore="Object_store" target="socketId"/>
                <logger
			level="INFO"
			message="#['Trying to close websocket [' ++ vars.socketId as String ++ ']']"/>
                <websocket:close-socket
			config-ref="WebSockets_Client_Config"
			socketId="#[vars.socketId]"
			reason="Client wants to close the websocket"/>
            </when>
            <otherwise >
                <logger level="INFO" message="There is no WebSocket to close"/>
            </otherwise>
        </choice>
    </flow>

    <flow name="producer-app-websocket-on-socket-closed-flow">
        <websocket:on-socket-closed config-ref="WebSockets_Client_Config" path="/feed"/>
        <logger
		level="INFO"
		message="#['Websocket [' ++ attributes.socketId ++ '] was closed']"/>
        <os:retrieve key="socketId" objectStore="Object_store" target="socketId" />
        <choice>
            <when expression="#[attributes.socketId == vars.socketId]">
                <logger
			level="INFO"
			message="#['Removing the websocket ID stored for referencing it']" />
                <os:remove key="socketId" objectStore="Object_store" />
            </when>
            <otherwise >
                <logger
			level="INFO"
			message="#['Disconnected WebSocket is not the main one [' ++ vars.socketId as String ++ ']']" />
            </otherwise>
        </choice>
    </flow>
----

== Quote Client Implementation

[source,xml,linenums]
----

<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0"
			port="62000" />
	</http:listener-config>

	<websocket:config name="WebSockets_Client_App_Config">
		<websocket:connection>
			<websocket:client-settings host="0.0.0.0"
				port="61001" protocol="WSS">
				<tls:context>
					<tls:trust-store path="client-truststore.jks"
						password="mule123" insecure="true" />
				</tls:context>
			</websocket:client-settings>
		</websocket:connection>
	</websocket:config>

	<flow name="aggregator-app-websocket-open-flow">
		<http:listener doc:name="Listener"
			config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="open-aggregator-ws" />
		<set-variable value="#[attributes.queryParams.*ticker]"
			variableName="groups" />
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger"
			doc:id="23e98197-48c9-4e7c-8e9b-43c50273ad40"
			message="#[vars.groups]" />
		<websocket:open-outbound-socket config-ref="WebSockets_Client_App_Config" path="/quotes" socketId="#[attributes.socketId]" defaultGroups="#[vars.groups]">
			<websocket:headers ><![CDATA[#[output application/java
---
{
	groups : vars.groups[0]
}]]]></websocket:headers>
		</websocket:open-outbound-socket>
    </flow>

    <flow name="stock-quotes-clientFlow">
        <websocket:outbound-listener
		config-ref="WebSockets_Client_App_Config"
		path="/quotes"
		outputMimeType="application/json"/>
        <logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" message="#[output application/json
            ---
            {
                info: 'New message received on [' ++ attributes.socketId ++ ']',
                payload: payload
            }]"/>
    </flow>
	<flow name="webs-clientFlow" doc:id="c50c42a1-7419-4349-a098-3066d19102aa" >
		<websocket:subscribe-groups doc:name="Subscribe groups" doc:id="d0ae65fa-82e8-4f06-88de-7ad5aabb53d4" config-ref="WebSockets_Client_App_Config" socketId="#[attributes.socketId]" groups="#[vars.groups]" />
	</flow>
----

== See Also

* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
* xref:websockets-connector-config-topics.adoc[Connector Configuration]
* xref:websockets-connector-server-components.adoc[Server Components]
* xref:websockets-connector-messaging-operations.adoc[Messaging Operations]

Commit message:

WSCON-7: fixed examples - generate keystores

websockets/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/websockets-connector-examples.adoc, after:

= WebSockets Examples - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::websockets/websockets-connector-examples.adoc

You can use the WebSockets connector to build an integration system that obtains and broadcasts stock quotes.

This example consists of three apps:

[%header,cols="50a,50a"]
|===
|App |Implementation
|<<Quote Producer App>> |<<Quote Producer Implementation>>
|<<Quote Aggregator App>> |<<Quote Aggregator Implementation>>
|<<Quote Client App>> |<<Quote Client Implementation>>
|===

== Quote Producer App

This app generaates continuous random stock quotes like the following:

[source,json,linenums]
----
{
   "ticker": "CRM",
   "price": 157.6,
   "cur": "USD",
  "timestamp": 1563374475104
}
----

In this example, this is called by the `Quote` type.

This app generates approximately 50 quotes, using at least 5 different tickers (CRM, MELI, GOOG, NFLX, AAPL). The prices are random, so there's no need to get the real ones for this example.

This app also exposes the `+wss://localhost:8080/feed+` endpoint. This TLS secure endpoint accepts one and only one connection. The first client to connect needs to do so successfully. Subsequent clients need to be sent a WSS message with the text "Sorry, spot taken" after which, the connection is dropped.

Each produced quote is sent to the connected feed client.

Generate the corresponding keystores in resources directory with:
keytool -genkey -v -keystore producer-keystore.jks -alias producerkey -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 10000

== Quote Aggregator App

This app connects to the feed endpoint in the prior app and receives all of the quotes. It splits them by ticker and places them in time-based aggregators that flush every 5 seconds.

When the aggregators flush, they output an `Array<Quote>` that needs to be reduced to a single `QuoteSnapshot` type. `QuoteSnapshot` is as follows:

[source,json,linenums]
----
{
   "ticker": "CRM"
   "price": "157.54 USD"
}
----

Such reduction is done by picking the `Quote` with the greatest timestamp and transforming it per the example.

The produced snapshots broadcast to a dynamic list of subscribers. Subscriptions are done through the `+wss://localhost:8082/quotes+` endpoint that this application exposes. Clients can connect to this endpoint, using a query parameter to indicate what stock quotes to follow. For example: `+wss://localhost:8082/quotes?ticker=CRM&ticker=MELI+`

Generate the corresponding keystores in resources directory with:
keytool -genkey -v -keystore broadcast-keystore.jks -alias broadcast -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 10000

Generate the corresponding keystores in resources directory with:
keytool -genkey -v -keystore aggregator-truststore.jks -alias broadcast -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 10000

The request should establish a WebSocket that gets the snapshots for the `CRM` and `MELI` tickers. This should be done by subscribing the resulting sockets to the proper socket groups.
To connect the Quote Aggregator App with the Quote Producer App needs to trigger the flow to open the outbound socket with 
curl -k http://localhost:8081/connect

== Quote Client App

Finally, the client app should open at least three different WebSockets to the quotes endpoint in the aggregator app. Each of those sockets should be listening for a different set of tickers.

The received `QuoteSnapshots` should be transformed to CSV format and appended to a file.

Generate the corresponding keystores in resources directory with:
keytool -genkey -v -keystore client-truststore.jks -alias client -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 10000

To connect the Quote Client App with the Quote Aggregator App needs to trigger the flow to open the outbound socket with
curl -k http://localhost:62000/open-aggregator-ws\?ticker\=CRM

== Quote Producer Implementation

[source,xml,linenums]
----
	<tls:context name="TLS_Context">
		<tls:key-store path="producer-keystore.jks"
			alias="producerkey" keyPassword="mule123" password="mule123" />
	</tls:context>

	<http:listener-config
		name="HTTP_TLS_Listener_config">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0"
			port="60000" tlsContext="TLS_Context" protocol="HTTPS" />
	</http:listener-config>

	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0"
			port="60001" />
	</http:listener-config>

	<websocket:config name="WebSockets_Config">
		<websocket:connection>
			<websocket:server-settings
				listenerConfig="HTTP_TLS_Listener_config" />
		</websocket:connection>
	</websocket:config>

	<os:object-store name="Object_store" persistent="false" />

	<flow name="stock-quotes-producer-flow">
		<scheduler>
			<scheduling-strategy>
				<fixed-frequency frequency="15" timeUnit="SECONDS" />
			</scheduling-strategy>
		</scheduler>

		<ee:transform doc:name="Transform Message">
			<ee:message>
				<ee:set-payload>
                    <![CDATA[%dw 2.0
                    var randomStockSelector = randomInt(5)
                    var randomPriceVariation = (randomInt(401) / 100) - 2 as String { format: "#.00"} as Number
                    var baseStockQuotes = [
                        {
                            "ticker": "CRM",
                            "price": 157.6,
                            "cur": "USD"
                        },
                        {
                            "ticker": "MELI",
                            "price": 646.24,
                            "cur": "USD"
                        },
                        {
                            "ticker": "GOOG",
                            "price": 1134.14,
                            "cur": "USD"
                        },
                        {
                            "ticker": "NFLX",
                            "price": 316.53,
                            "cur": "USD"
                        },
                        {
                            "ticker": "AAPL",
                            "price": 208.19,
                            "cur": "USD"
                        }
                    ]
                    var selectedStock = baseStockQuotes[randomStockSelector]
                    output application/json
                    ---
                    {
                        ticker : selectedStock.ticker,
                        price : selectedStock.price + randomPriceVariation,
                        cur : selectedStock.cur,
                        timestamp : now() as Number
                    }]]>
				</ee:set-payload>
			</ee:message>
		</ee:transform>
		<flow-ref name="send-stock-quote-flow" />
	</flow>

	<flow name="send-stock-quote-flow">
		<os:contains objectStore="Object_store"
			key="webSocketConnectedId" target="webSocketConnected" />
		<choice>
			<when expression="#[vars.webSocketConnected]">
				<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger"
					doc:id="d5b23165-eb47-4caa-b4a8-464c13801932" message="Sending" />
				<os:retrieve objectStore="Object_store"
					target="webSocketConnectedId" key="webSocketConnectedId" />
				<websocket:send
					socketId="#[vars.webSocketConnectedId]"
					config-ref="WebSockets_Config" />
			</when>
		</choice>
	</flow>

	<flow name="on-new-inbound-connection-flow">
		<websocket:on-inbound-connection
			doc:name="On New Inbound Connection" config-ref="WebSockets_Config"
			path="/feed" />
		<os:contains key="webSocketConnectedId"
			target="webSocketConnected" objectStore="Object_store" />
		<choice>
			<when expression="#[vars.webSocketConnected]">
				<os:retrieve key="webSocketConnectedId"
					objectStore="Object_store" target="webSocketConnectedId" />
				<websocket:close-socket
					socketId="#[attributes.socketId]" reason="Sorry, spot taken"
					config-ref="WebSockets_Config" />
			</when>
			<otherwise>
				<os:store key="webSocketConnectedId"
					objectStore="Object_store">
					<os:value><![CDATA[#[attributes.socketId]]]></os:value>
				</os:store>
			</otherwise>
		</choice>
	</flow>

	<flow name="on-new-inbound-message-flow">
		<websocket:inbound-listener
			config-ref="WebSockets_Config" path="/feed" />
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger"
			message="#[output application/json
		---
		{
			info: 'New message received from [' ++ attributes.socketId ++ ']',
			payload : payload
		}]" />
	</flow>

	<flow name="on-socket-closed-flow">
		<websocket:on-socket-closed
			config-ref="WebSockets_Config" path="/feed" />
		<os:retrieve key="webSocketConnectedId"
			objectStore="Object_store" target="webSocketConnectedId" />
		<choice>
			<when
				expression="#[attributes.socketId == vars.webSocketConnectedId]">
				<os:remove key="webSocketConnectedId"
					objectStore="Object_store" />
			</when>
		</choice>
	</flow>

	<flow name="close-websocket-flow">
		<os:contains key="webSocketConnectedId"
			target="webSocketConnected" objectStore="Object_store" />
		<choice>
			<when expression="#[vars.webSocketConnected]">
				<os:retrieve doc:name="Retrieve"
					key="webSocketConnectedId" objectStore="Object_store"
					target="webSocketConnectedId" />
				<websocket:close-socket
					config-ref="WebSockets_Config"
					socketId="#[vars.webSocketConnectedId]"
					reason="Producer app wanted to close the websocket" />
			</when>
		</choice>
	</flow>
----

== Quote Aggregator Implementation

[source,xml,linenums]
----
	<tls:context name="TLS_Context">
		<tls:trust-store path="aggregator-truststore.jks"
			password="mule123" insecure="true" />
	</tls:context>

	<http:listener-config
		name="HTTP_API_Listener_config">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0"
			port="61000" />
	</http:listener-config>

	<websocket:config name="WebSockets_Client_Config">
		<websocket:connection>
			<websocket:client-settings host="0.0.0.0"
				port="60000" protocol="WSS" tlsContext="TLS_Context" />
		</websocket:connection>
	</websocket:config>

	<os:object-store name="Object_store" persistent="false" />

	<tls:context name="TLS_Context_Broadcast">
		<tls:key-store path="broadcast-keystore.jks"
			alias="broadcast" keyPassword="mule123" password="mule123" />
	</tls:context>

	<http:listener-config
		name="HTTP_WebSockets_Listener_Config">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0"
			port="61001" tlsContext="TLS_Context_Broadcast" protocol="HTTPS" />
	</http:listener-config>

	<websocket:config name="WebSockets_Server_Config">
		<websocket:connection>
			<websocket:server-settings
				listenerConfig="HTTP_WebSockets_Listener_Config" />
		</websocket:connection>
	</websocket:config>


	<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config"
		doc:name="HTTP Listener config"
		doc:id="f9f68ced-9d25-4975-af23-e6f5c34933c4">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0"
			port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>

	<flow name="broadcasting-stock-quote-snapshot">
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger"
			message="#[output application/json
            ---
            {
                info: 'Broadcasting stock quote reduction',
                payload: payload
            }]" />
	</flow>
	<flow name="producer-app-websocket-open-flow">
        <http:listener doc:name="Listener" doc:id="bc39fe0e-7315-4aa0-8762-104b8ddd38b9" config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="/connect"/>
		<websocket:open-outbound-socket config-ref="WebSockets_Client_Config" path="/feed"/>
        <logger
		level="INFO"
		message="#['New connection established with [' ++ attributes.socketId ++ ']']" />
        <os:contains key="socketId" objectStore="Object_store" target="webSocketConnected" />
        <choice>
            <when expression="#[vars.webSocketConnected]">
                <logger
			level="INFO"
			message="#['The websocket [' ++ attributes.socketId ++ '] is not saved as there is already one connected']"/>
            </when>
            <otherwise >
                <logger
			level="INFO"
			message="#['Websocket with ID [' ++ attributes.socketId ++ '] is saved for later reference']"/>
                <os:store key="socketId" objectStore="Object_store">
                    <os:value><![CDATA[#[attributes.socketId]]]></os:value>
                </os:store>
            </otherwise>
        </choice>
    </flow>

    <flow name="webs-quote-aggFlow" doc:id="ec4429d0-fc47-472a-bd46-a226be13ed4b" >
		<websocket:on-inbound-connection doc:name="On New Inbound Connection" doc:id="fec6e5f3-2685-4852-8104-d76aa3651107" config-ref="WebSockets_Server_Config" path="/quotes"/>
		<websocket:subscribe-groups doc:name="Subscribe groups" doc:id="5dfa2459-ad20-4f7f-915c-0f76953c7347" config-ref="WebSockets_Server_Config" socketId="#[attributes.socketId]" groups='#[[attributes.headers.groups]]' />
	</flow>
	<flow name="client-app-websocket-inbound-listener-flow">
        <websocket:inbound-listener doc:name="On New Inbound Message" config-ref="WebSockets_Server_Config" path="/quotes" />
        <logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" message="#[output application/json
            ---
            {
                info: 'New message received from [' ++ attributes.socketId ++ ']',
                payload: payload
            }]" />
    </flow>
	<flow name="producer-app-websocket-outbound-listener-flow">
        <websocket:outbound-listener
		config-ref="WebSockets_Client_Config"
		path="/feed"
		outputMimeType="application/json"/>
        <logger level="INFO" message="#[output application/json
            ---
            {
                info: 'New message received from [' ++ attributes.socketId ++ ']',
                payload: payload
            }]" />
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" doc:id="6c3f60f7-d4b2-4ba3-bbb1-3661558d0658" message="#[[payload.ticker]]"/>
		<websocket:broadcast config-ref="WebSockets_Server_Config" path="/quotes" groups="#[[payload.ticker]]"/>
    </flow>

    <flow name="producer-app-websocket-close-flow">
        <os:contains key="socketId" objectStore="Object_store" target="webSocketConnected"/>
        <choice>
            <when expression="#[vars.webSocketConnected]">
                <os:retrieve key="socketId" objectStore="Object_store" target="socketId"/>
                <logger
			level="INFO"
			message="#['Trying to close websocket [' ++ vars.socketId as String ++ ']']"/>
                <websocket:close-socket
			config-ref="WebSockets_Client_Config"
			socketId="#[vars.socketId]"
			reason="Client wants to close the websocket"/>
            </when>
            <otherwise >
                <logger level="INFO" message="There is no WebSocket to close"/>
            </otherwise>
        </choice>
    </flow>

    <flow name="producer-app-websocket-on-socket-closed-flow">
        <websocket:on-socket-closed config-ref="WebSockets_Client_Config" path="/feed"/>
        <logger
		level="INFO"
		message="#['Websocket [' ++ attributes.socketId ++ '] was closed']"/>
        <os:retrieve key="socketId" objectStore="Object_store" target="socketId" />
        <choice>
            <when expression="#[attributes.socketId == vars.socketId]">
                <logger
			level="INFO"
			message="#['Removing the websocket ID stored for referencing it']" />
                <os:remove key="socketId" objectStore="Object_store" />
            </when>
            <otherwise >
                <logger
			level="INFO"
			message="#['Disconnected WebSocket is not the main one [' ++ vars.socketId as String ++ ']']" />
            </otherwise>
        </choice>
    </flow>
----

== Quote Client Implementation

[source,xml,linenums]
----

<http:listener-config name="HTTP_Listener_config">
		<http:listener-connection host="0.0.0.0"
			port="62000" />
	</http:listener-config>

	<websocket:config name="WebSockets_Client_App_Config">
		<websocket:connection>
			<websocket:client-settings host="0.0.0.0"
				port="61001" protocol="WSS">
				<tls:context>
					<tls:trust-store path="client-truststore.jks"
						password="mule123" insecure="true" />
				</tls:context>
			</websocket:client-settings>
		</websocket:connection>
	</websocket:config>

	<flow name="aggregator-app-websocket-open-flow">
		<http:listener doc:name="Listener"
			config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" path="open-aggregator-ws" />
		<set-variable value="#[attributes.queryParams.*ticker]"
			variableName="groups" />
		<logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger"
			doc:id="23e98197-48c9-4e7c-8e9b-43c50273ad40"
			message="#[vars.groups]" />
		<websocket:open-outbound-socket config-ref="WebSockets_Client_App_Config" path="/quotes" socketId="#[attributes.socketId]" defaultGroups="#[vars.groups]">
			<websocket:headers ><![CDATA[#[output application/java
---
{
	groups : vars.groups[0]
}]]]></websocket:headers>
		</websocket:open-outbound-socket>
    </flow>

    <flow name="stock-quotes-clientFlow">
        <websocket:outbound-listener
		config-ref="WebSockets_Client_App_Config"
		path="/quotes"
		outputMimeType="application/json"/>
        <logger level="INFO" doc:name="Logger" message="#[output application/json
            ---
            {
                info: 'New message received on [' ++ attributes.socketId ++ ']',
                payload: payload
            }]"/>
    </flow>
	<flow name="webs-clientFlow" doc:id="c50c42a1-7419-4349-a098-3066d19102aa" >
		<websocket:subscribe-groups doc:name="Subscribe groups" doc:id="d0ae65fa-82e8-4f06-88de-7ad5aabb53d4" config-ref="WebSockets_Client_App_Config" socketId="#[attributes.socketId]" groups="#[vars.groups]" />
	</flow>
----

== See Also

* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
* xref:websockets-connector-config-topics.adoc[Connector Configuration]
* xref:websockets-connector-server-components.adoc[Server Components]
* xref:websockets-connector-messaging-operations.adoc[Messaging Operations]
