servicenow/6.9/modules/ROOT/pages/servicenow-connector-studio.adoc, before:

= Use Anypoint Studio to Configure ServiceNow Connector 6.9 - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::servicenow/servicenow-connector-studio.adoc

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-input-source,Configure a source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.

When you run the connector, you can view the app log to check for problems, as described in <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.

If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the xref:servicenow-reference.adoc[ServiceNow Connector Reference].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.


[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add ServiceNow Connector to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and to add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In the *Add Dependencies to Project* window, type `servicenow` in the search field.
. Click *ServiceNow Connector* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these sources to use with ServiceNow Connector:

* *HTTP > Listener* +
Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* *Scheduler* +
Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure an HTTP *Listener*, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP > Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Path* field.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the HTTP *Listener* in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify the connection information for the connector.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify the TLS information for the connector.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for ServiceNow Connector, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *ServiceNow* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas and to the right of the source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials that the connector requires to access the target ServiceNow system. ServiceNow Connector supports the Basic and OAuth2 authentication types.

To configure the global element for ServiceNow Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the operation in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. On the *General* tab, in *Connection*, select the authentication method to configure:
* <<basic-authentication,Basic Authentication>>
* <<oauth-2-auth-code,OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code>>

+
You can reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders (recommended), or you can enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties. For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[basic-authentication]]
=== Basic Authentication

. In the ServiceNow Config *General* tab, select *Basic Authentication* from the *Connection* drop-down list.
. Provide the following values for Basic authentication:
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Field |Description
|*Username* | Name used to log in to ServiceNow
|*Password* | Password that corresponds to the user name
|*Service Address* | The WSDL endpoint
|*ServiceNow Version* | The ServiceNow version to use
|*User table list*| Custom tables for a user who is logged in
|===
+
image::servicenow-studio-connection-6.7.0.png[The global element connection settings with basic authentication selected]
+
. Click *OK*.

==== Basic Authentication HTTP Message Dispatcher Provider

. Click the *Transport* tab.
. From *Transport Configuration*, select *Basic auth http message dispatcher provider*.
. Enter the following required values:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Field |Description
|*User Name* | Name used to log in to ServiceNow
|*Password* | Password that corresponds to the user name
|===

==== Basic Authentication HTTP Requester Based Transport Provider

. Click the *Transport* tab.
. From *Transport Configuration*, select *Http requester based transport provider*.
. Select the *Requester config* or click the green plus sign to create a new one.
+
image::servicenow-studio-requester-config.png[The Transport configuration tab for basic authentication]
+
. Specify the required values:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Field |Description
|*Host* | The WSDL endpoint
|*Username* | User name for logging in to ServiceNow
|*Password* | Password that corresponds to the user name
|===

[[oauth-2-auth-code]]
=== OAuth2.0 Authentication

. In the ServiceNow Config *General* tab, select *OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code* from the *Connection* drop-down list.
. Specify the values for the OAuth connection:

image::servicenow-oauth.png[General tab for configuring OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code authentication]

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Field |Description
|*Service Address* | ServiceNow's instance endpoint
|*Consumer key* | Client ID from the registered application
|*Consumer secret* | Client secret from the registered application
|*Authorization url* | Endpoint for initiating the OAuth dance
|*Access token url* | Endpoint for retrieving the access token
|*Listener config* | HTTP Listener configuration
|*Callback path* | The path of the access token callback endpoint
|*Authorize path* | The path of the local HTTP endpoint that triggers OAuth dance
|*External callback url* | If the callback endpoint is behind a proxy  or should be accessed through a non-direct URL, use this parameter to specify the URL the OAuth provider should use to access the callback.
|===

[[view-app-log]]
== View the App Log

To check for problems, you can view the app log as follows:

* If you’re running the app from Anypoint Platform, the output is visible in the Anypoint Studio console window.
* If you’re running the app using Mule from the command line, the app log is visible in your OS console.

Unless the log file path is customized in the app’s log file (`log4j2.xml`), you can also view the app log in the default location `MULE_HOME/logs/<app-name>.log`.


== Next Step

After configuring ServiceNow Connector in Studio, see the xref:servicenow-connector-examples.adoc[Examples] to experiment with the connector.

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

add information about oauth dance for service now configuration

servicenow/6.9/modules/ROOT/pages/servicenow-connector-studio.adoc, after:

= Use Anypoint Studio to Configure ServiceNow Connector 6.9 - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::servicenow/servicenow-connector-studio.adoc

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-input-source,Configure a source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.

When you run the connector, you can view the app log to check for problems, as described in <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.

If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector].If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the xref:servicenow-reference.adoc[ServiceNow Connector Reference].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add ServiceNow Connector to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and to add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In the *Add Dependencies to Project* window, type `servicenow` in the search field.
. Click *ServiceNow Connector* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these sources to use with ServiceNow Connector:

* *HTTP > Listener* +
Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* *Scheduler* +
Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure an HTTP *Listener*, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP > Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Path* field.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of the HTTP *Listener* in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify the connection information for the connector.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify the TLS information for the connector.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for ServiceNow Connector, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *ServiceNow* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas and to the right of the source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use.Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials that the connector requires to access the target ServiceNow system.ServiceNow Connector supports the Basic and OAuth2 authentication types.

To configure the global element for ServiceNow Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the operation in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. On the *General* tab, in *Connection*, select the authentication method to configure:
* <<basic-authentication,Basic Authentication>>
* <<oauth-2-auth-code,OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code>>

+
You can reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders (recommended), or you can enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties.For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[basic-authentication]]
=== Basic Authentication

. In the ServiceNow Config *General* tab, select *Basic Authentication* from the *Connection* drop-down list.
. Provide the following values for Basic authentication:
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Field |Description
|*Username* | Name used to log in to ServiceNow
|*Password* | Password that corresponds to the user name
|*Service Address* | The WSDL endpoint
|*ServiceNow Version* | The ServiceNow version to use
|*User table list*| Custom tables for a user who is logged in
|===
+
image::servicenow-studio-connection-6.7.0.png[The global element connection settings with basic authentication selected]
+
. Click *OK*.

==== Basic Authentication HTTP Message Dispatcher Provider

. Click the *Transport* tab.
. From *Transport Configuration*, select *Basic auth http message dispatcher provider*.
. Enter the following required values:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Field |Description
|*User Name* | Name used to log in to ServiceNow
|*Password* | Password that corresponds to the user name
|===

==== Basic Authentication HTTP Requester Based Transport Provider

. Click the *Transport* tab.
. From *Transport Configuration*, select *Http requester based transport provider*.
. Select the *Requester config* or click the green plus sign to create a new one.
+
image::servicenow-studio-requester-config.png[The Transport configuration tab for basic authentication]
+
. Specify the required values:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Field |Description
|*Host* | The WSDL endpoint
|*Username* | User name for logging in to ServiceNow
|*Password* | Password that corresponds to the user name
|===

[[oauth-2-auth-code]]
=== OAuth2.0 Authentication

. In the ServiceNow Config *General* tab, select *OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code* from the *Connection* drop-down list.
. Specify the values for the OAuth connection:

image::servicenow-oauth.png[General tab for configuring OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code authentication]

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Field |Description
|*Service Address* | ServiceNow's instance endpoint
|*Consumer key* | Client ID from the registered application
|*Consumer secret* | Client secret from the registered application
|*Authorization url* | Endpoint for initiating the OAuth dance
|*Access token url* | Endpoint for retrieving the access token
|*Resource owner id* | OAuth Client ID configured in your instance's Application Registries
|*Listener config* | HTTP Listener configuration
|*Callback path* | The path of the access token callback endpoint
|*Authorize path* | The path of the local HTTP endpoint that triggers OAuth dance
|*External callback url* | If the callback endpoint is behind a proxy or should be accessed through a non-direct URL, use this parameter to specify the URL the OAuth provider should use to access the callback.
|===

**Initiate OAuth dance**

NOTE: To reach servicenow endpoints using oauth 2.0 configuration, you have to manually perform the Oauth dance after start of your Mule application.

Run in the browser http://localhost:8081/authorize?resourceOwnerId=demo to start the OAuth dance.

NOTE: If Resource owner id parameter is not set in OAuth configuration then simply use the following link http://localhost:8081/authorize to initiate the OAuth dance

ServiceNow will redirect us to the login screen.
Here we will need to enter login details used to access the ServiceNow instance and click *Login* button.

After that we will be redirected to Authorize Screen.
On this screen click *Allow* button, and we will be redirected to the next screen which confirms that OAuth dance was successful, and the access token was retrieved.

[[view-app-log]]
== View the App Log

To check for problems, you can view the app log as follows:

* If you’re running the app from Anypoint Platform, the output is visible in the Anypoint Studio console window.
* If you’re running the app using Mule from the command line, the app log is visible in your OS console.

Unless the log file path is customized in the app’s log file (`log4j2.xml`), you can also view the app log in the default location `MULE_HOME/logs/<app-name>.log`.


== Next Step

After configuring ServiceNow Connector in Studio, see the xref:servicenow-connector-examples.adoc[Examples] to experiment with the connector.

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
