netsuite/10.0/modules/ROOT/pages/netsuite-studio-configure.adoc, before:

= Use Studio to Configure NetSuite Connector

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-input-source,Configure an input source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.
. <<conigure-other-fields,Configure the other connector fields>>.

If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see xref:netsuite-reference.adoc[NetSuite Reference].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add NetSuite Connector to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type `netsuite` in the search field.
. Click the connector name in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure an Input Source

An input source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these input sources to use with NetSuite:

* `HTTP Listener`, which initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* `Scheduler`, which initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure HTTP Listener, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP > Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Path* field.
. Click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of `HTTP Listener` in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify connection information.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify TLS information.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specific server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for NetSuite, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *NetSuite* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas to the right of the input source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials the connector uses to access the target NetSuite system.

To configure the global element for NetSuite Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the name of the connector in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. On the *General* tab, select an authentication mechanism and configure it as described in <<token-authentication,Configure Token Authentication>>.
+
[NOTE]
To configure NetSuite authentication, you must have the account ID for SuiteTalk NetSuite Web Services, which you can find within the NetSuite sandbox UI under *Setup > Integration > Web Service Preferences*.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

=== Configure Token Authentication

With token authentication, you authenticate by using either a consumer key and token ID or by using secret pairs, which are established within the NetSuite environment.

The following screenshot shows an example of configuring token authentication:

image::netsuite-token-studio.png[request based authentication]
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Parameter |Description
|Consumer Key |Consumer key value for the token-based authentication-enabled integration record to use
|Consumer Secret |Consumer secret value for the token-based authentication-enabled integration record to use
|Token ID |Token ID that represents the unique combination of a user and an integration record that is generated within the NetSuite environment
|Token Secret |Respective token secret for the user and an integration record pair
|Account |Account ID for SuiteTalk NetSuite Web Services
|Signature algorithm | Type of HMAC signature algorithm
|===

== Next Steps

After configuring Studio, see the xref:netsuite-examples.adoc[Examples] topic for more configuration ideas.

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:index.adoc[NetSuite connector]
* xref:netsuite-reference.adoc[NetSuite Connector Reference]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

Adding back accidental changes to the v10 Studio topic

netsuite/10.0/modules/ROOT/pages/netsuite-studio-configure.adoc, after:

= Use Studio to Configure NetSuite Connector

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-input-source,Configure an input source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.
. <<conigure-other-fields,Configure the other connector fields>>.

If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see xref:netsuite-reference.adoc[NetSuite Reference].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add NetSuite Connector to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type `netsuite` in the search field.
. Click the connector name in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure an Input Source

An input source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these input sources to use with NetSuite:

* `HTTP Listener`, which initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* `Scheduler`, which initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure HTTP Listener, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP > Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Path* field.
. Click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of `HTTP Listener` in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify connection information.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify TLS information.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specific server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for NetSuite, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *NetSuite* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas to the right of the input source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials the connector uses to access the target NetSuite system.

To configure the global element for NetSuite Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the name of the connector in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (+) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. On the *General* tab, select an authentication mechanism and configure it as described: +
* <<request-based-authentication,Request-Based Authentication>>
* <<token-authentication,Token Authentication>>
+
[NOTE]
To configure NetSuite authentication, you must have the account ID for SuiteTalk NetSuite Web Services, which you can find within the NetSuite sandbox UI under *Setup > Integration > Web Service Preferences*.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[request-based-authentication]]
=== Request-Based Authentication

Use this strategy to send user credentials in the SOAP header of each request instead of authenticating to NetSuite by invoking login.

image::netsuite-request-studio.png[request based authentication]
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Parameter |Description
|Name |Name for the configuration to reference in subsequent configurations of NetSuite Connector instances
|Email |Email used to log in to the NetSuite UI
|Password |Corresponding password to log in to the NetSuite UI
|Account |Account ID for SuiteTalk NetSuite Web Services
|Role Id |Role ID for the user in SuiteTalk, which determines the processor privileges
|Application Id |Application ID corresponding to the integration record to use
|===

=== Token Authentication

With token authentication, you authenticate by using either a consumer key and token ID or by using secret pairs, which are established within the NetSuite environment.

The following screenshot shows an example of configuring token authentication:

image::netsuite-token-studio.png[request based authentication]
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Parameter |Description
|Consumer Key |Consumer key value for the token-based authentication-enabled integration record to use
|Consumer Secret |Consumer secret value for the token-based authentication-enabled integration record to use
|Token ID |Token ID that represents the unique combination of a user and an integration record that is generated within the NetSuite environment
|Token Secret |Respective token secret for the user and an integration record pair
|Account |Account ID for SuiteTalk NetSuite Web Services
|Signature algorithm | Type of HMAC signature algorithm
|===

== Next Steps

After configuring Studio, see the xref:netsuite-examples.adoc[Examples] topic for more configuration ideas.

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:index.adoc[NetSuite connector]
* xref:netsuite-reference.adoc[NetSuite Connector Reference]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
