google-drive/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, before:

= Google Drive Connector 1.0

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

Anypoint Connector for Google Drive (Google Drive Connector) synchronizes data and automates business processes between Google Drive and third-party applications, either on-premises or in the cloud.

Google Drive is a 

For compatibility information and fixed issues, see the Google Drive Connector Release Notes.

== Prerequisites

To use this connector, you should be familiar with:

* The Google Drive API
* Anypoint Connectors
* Mule runtime engine (Mule)
* Elements and global elements in a Mule flow
* Creating a Mule app using Anypoint Studio (Studio)

Before creating an app, you must have:

* Credentials to access Google Drive
* Anypoint Studio version 4.2.1 or later

== Common Use Cases for the Connectors

Common use cases for Google Drive Connector include the following:


== Authentication Types

Google Drive Connector uses the OAuth 2.0 authentication type, which uses access tokens provided by the authorization server to get access to protected data.

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:connectors::introduction/intro-use-exchange.adoc[Use Exchange to Discover Connectors, Templates, and Examples]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

Added intro and use cases

google-drive/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, after:

= Google Drive Connector 1.0

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

Anypoint Connector for Google Drive (Google Drive Connector) gives Anypoint users the ability to automate business processes between Google Drive (Drive) and other enterprise applications, either on premises or in the cloud. Using the Google Drive connector, businesses can access and upload content and relevant information from and to Drive, programmatically.

Drive gives enterprise users the ability to store and back up all their files, including documents, slides, images, audio and video, in the cloud. Drive integrates seamlessly with cloud-native apps that enable teams to collaborate effectively in real time, such as Google Docs, Sheets, and Slides.
 
For compatibility information and fixed issues, see the Google Drive Connector Release Notes.

== Prerequisites

To use this connector, you should be familiar with:

* The Google Drive API
* Anypoint Connectors
* Mule runtime engine (Mule)
* Elements and global elements in a Mule flow
* Creating a Mule app using Anypoint Studio (Studio)

Before creating an app, you must have:

* Credentials to access Google Drive
* Anypoint Studio version 4.2.1 or later

== Common Use Cases for the Connectors

Automate powerful business processes by integrating Google Drive with other IT tools and systems in your enterprise such as messaging, CRM, ITSM, and other enterprise systems. Possibilities include:

* Improving sales operations 
+
Automate contract approval processes so that when a sales contract is received in the Salesforce CRM system, it gets uploaded to Drive and shared with the deal desk or other teams for their review, automatically. 
* Enhancing cross-team collaboration 
+
Automatically notify all relevant teams and team members via Slack or Microsoft Teams and email, for review any time new content, for example, product specs, contracts, and legal addendums, is uploaded to a given folder in Drive.
* Securing your enterprise content 
+
Automatically upload content that is sent or uploaded via any other enterprise system, such as CRM, email, and marketing tools, to Drive folders that are configured with the appropriate security policies. This enables Drive to be the single source of truth for all of your content, which minimizes IP leaks.

== Authentication Types

Google Drive Connector uses the OAuth 2.0 authentication connection type, which uses access tokens provided by the authorization server to get access to protected data.

== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:connectors::introduction/intro-use-exchange.adoc[Use Exchange to Discover Connectors, Templates, and Examples]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
