sap-successfactors/4.0/modules/ROOT/pages/sap-successfactors-connector-studio.adoc, before:

= Use Anypoint Studio to Configure SAP SuccessFactors Connector 4.0 - Mule 4

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-input-source,Configure an input source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.

When you run the connector, you can view the app log to check for problems, as described in <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.

If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the xref:sap-successfactors-connector-reference.adoc[SAP SuccessFactors Reference].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector: 

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add SAP SuccessFactors Connector to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type `successfactors` in the search field.
. Click *SuccessFactors* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these sources to use with SAP SuccessFactors Connector:

* *HTTP > Listener* +
Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* *Scheduler* +
Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure an HTTP *Listener*, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP > Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Path* field.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of HTTP *Listener* in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify connection information for the connector.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify the TLS information for the connector.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for SuccessFactors Connector, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *SuccessFactors* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas to the right of the input source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials that the connector requires to access the target SAP SuccessFactors system. SuccessFactors Connector supports the Basic and OAuth 2.0 authentication methods.

To configure the global element for SuccessFactors Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the operation in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. On the *General* tab, in *Connection*, select the authentication method to configure:
* <<basic_authentication,*Basic*>>
* <<oauth-authentication,*OAuth Authentication*>>
+
You can reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders (recommended), or you can enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties. For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[basic-authentication]]
=== Basic Authentication

Enter the following information on the *General* tab of the *Global Element Properties* screen to configure Basic authentication:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Parameter|Description
|CompanyID|Your company ID
|User Name|User name to connect
|Password|Password to connect
|Data Center's Endpoint URL|SuccessFactors Web API URL
|Enable Session Reuse|The session is alive.
|===

The following image shows an example of Basic authentication configuration:

.Basic authentication fields
image::sap-successfactors-basic-config.png[To configure authentication, select *Basic* in the *Connection* field and then complete the fields on the *General* tab.]

The first item shows where to specify that the connector will use Basic authentication to connect to SuccessFactors. The second item shows the *General tab*, which contains fields related to Basic authentication.

[[oauth-authentication]]
=== OAuth 2.0 Authentication

Enter the following information on the *General* tab of the global element configuration screen to configure OAuth 2.0 authentication:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Parameter| Description
|Client ID|API key
|User ID|Use ID used to log in to your SuccessFactors account
|Private Key|The generated X.509 certificate
|Company Id|Your company ID
|Token URL |Token URL for retrieving a token
|Data 's Endpoint URL|SuccessFactors Web API URL
|Authorization URL|Authorization URL for where the identity provider is located
|===

The following image shows an example of OAuth 2.0 authentication configuration:

.OAuth Authentication fields
image::sap-successfactors-oauth-config.png[Select *OAuth Authentication* in the *Connection* field and then complete the fields on the *General* tab.]

== Run a Flow

. In *Package Explorer*, right-click your project's name, and click *Run As > Mule Application*.
. Check the console to see when the application starts. You see messages similar to the following if no errors occur:

[source,text,linenums]
----
************************************************************
INFO  2019-07-14 22:12:42,003 [main] org.mule.module.launcher.DeploymentDirectoryWatcher:
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
+ Mule is up and kicking (every 5000ms)                    +
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
INFO  2019-07-14 22:12:42,006 [main] org.mule.module.launcher.StartupSummaryDeploymentListener:
**********************************************************
*  - - + DOMAIN + - -               * - - + STATUS + - - *
**********************************************************
* default                           * DEPLOYED           *
**********************************************************

************************************************************************
* - - + APPLICATION + - -   * - - + DOMAIN + - -  * - - + STATUS + - - *
************************************************************************
* myapp                     * default             * DEPLOYED           *
************************************************************************
----

[[view-app-log]]
== View the App Log

To check for problems, you can view the app log as follows:

* If you’re running the app from Anypoint Platform, the app log output is visible in the Anypoint Studio console window.
* If you’re running the app using Mule from the command line, the app log output is visible in your OS console.

Unless the log file path is customized in the app’s log file (`log4j2.xml`), you can also view the app log in the default location `MULE_HOME/logs/<app-name>.log`. You can configure the location of the log path in the app log file `log4j2.xml`. 

== Next Step

After you configure a global element and connection information, configure the other fields for the connector. See xref:sap-successfactors-connector-config-topics.adoc[Additional Configuration Information] for more configuration steps.


== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:sap-successfactors-connector-reference.adoc[SAP SuccessFactors Connector Reference]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]

Commit message:

Updated Studio topic for OAuth SAML Bearer Assertion

sap-successfactors/4.0/modules/ROOT/pages/sap-successfactors-connector-studio.adoc, after:

= Use Anypoint Studio to Configure SAP SuccessFactors Connector 4.0 - Mule 4

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a connector in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the connector to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-input-source,Configure an input source for the connector's flow>>.
. <<add-connector-operation,Add a connector operation to the flow>>.
. <<configure-global-element,Configure a global element for the connector>>.

When you run the connector, you can view the app log to check for problems, as described in <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.

If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the xref:sap-successfactors-connector-reference.adoc[SAP SuccessFactors Reference].

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector: 

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Connector to Your Mule Project

Add SAP SuccessFactors Connector to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the connector's namespace and schema location and add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type `successfactors` in the search field.
. Click *SuccessFactors* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-input-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these sources to use with SAP SuccessFactors Connector:

* *HTTP > Listener* +
Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* *Scheduler* +
Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure an HTTP *Listener*, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP > Listener*.
. Drag *Listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Specify a value for the *Path* field.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of HTTP *Listener* in the app.
. On the *General* tab, specify connection information for the connector.
. On the *TLS* tab, optionally specify the TLS information for the connector.
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you immediately define a specific operation for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for SuccessFactors Connector, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *SuccessFactors* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas to the right of the input source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, it’s best to configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials that the connector requires to access the target SAP SuccessFactors system. SuccessFactors Connector supports the Basic and OAuth 2.0 authentication methods.

To configure the global element for SuccessFactors Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the operation in the Studio canvas.
. In the configuration screen for the operation, click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to access the global element configuration fields.
. On the *General* tab, in *Connection*, select the authentication method to configure:
* <<basic_authentication,*Basic*>>
* <<oauth-authentication,*OAuth Authentication*>>
+
You can reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders (recommended), or you can enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties. For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].
. On the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[basic-authentication]]
=== Basic Authentication

Enter the following information on the *General* tab of the *Global Element Properties* screen to configure Basic authentication:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Parameter|Description
|CompanyID|Your company ID
|User Name|User name to connect
|Password|Password to connect
|Data Center's Endpoint URL|SuccessFactors Web API URL
|Enable Session Reuse|The session is alive.
|===

The following image shows an example of Basic authentication configuration:

.Basic authentication fields
image::sap-successfactors-basic-config.png[To configure authentication, select *Basic* in the *Connection* field and then complete the fields on the *General* tab.]

The first item shows where to specify that the connector will use Basic authentication to connect to SuccessFactors. The second item shows the *General tab*, which contains fields related to Basic authentication.

[[oauth-authentication]]
=== OAuth SAML Bearer Assertion Authentication

Enter the following information on the *General* tab of the global element configuration screen to configure SAML Bearer Assertion authentication:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Parameter| Description
|Client ID|Client ID to use for OAuth.
|User ID|User ID used to log in to your SuccessFactors account.
|The private key from the X.509 certificate |Private key obtained from the X.509 certificate generated by SuccessFactors.
|Company Id|Your company ID.
|Token URL |Token URL that is passed to the identity provider to generate the OAuth Bearer token, for example: `+https://api4.successfactors.com/oauth/token+`
|Authorization URL |Identity provider URL to use to retrieve the SAML assertion, for example: `+https://api4.successfactors.com/oauth/idp+`
|Data Center's Endpoint URL| SuccessFactors Web API URL
|===


== Run a Flow

. In *Package Explorer*, right-click your project's name, and click *Run As > Mule Application*.
. Check the console to see when the application starts. You see messages similar to the following if no errors occur:

[source,text,linenums]
----
************************************************************
INFO  2019-07-14 22:12:42,003 [main] org.mule.module.launcher.DeploymentDirectoryWatcher:
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
+ Mule is up and kicking (every 5000ms)                    +
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
INFO  2019-07-14 22:12:42,006 [main] org.mule.module.launcher.StartupSummaryDeploymentListener:
**********************************************************
*  - - + DOMAIN + - -               * - - + STATUS + - - *
**********************************************************
* default                           * DEPLOYED           *
**********************************************************

************************************************************************
* - - + APPLICATION + - -   * - - + DOMAIN + - -  * - - + STATUS + - - *
************************************************************************
* myapp                     * default             * DEPLOYED           *
************************************************************************
----

[[view-app-log]]
== View the App Log

To check for problems, you can view the app log as follows:

* If you’re running the app from Anypoint Platform, the app log output is visible in the Anypoint Studio console window.
* If you’re running the app using Mule from the command line, the app log output is visible in your OS console.

Unless the log file path is customized in the app’s log file (`log4j2.xml`), you can also view the app log in the default location `MULE_HOME/logs/<app-name>.log`. You can configure the location of the log path in the app log file `log4j2.xml`. 

== Next Step

After you configure a global element and connection information, configure the other fields for the connector. See xref:sap-successfactors-connector-config-topics.adoc[Additional Configuration Information] for more configuration steps.


== See Also

* xref:connectors::introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc[Introduction to Anypoint Connectors]
* xref:sap-successfactors-connector-reference.adoc[SAP SuccessFactors Connector Reference]
* https://help.mulesoft.com[MuleSoft Help Center]
